---
title: Identify resources created by Azure Batch
description: This article provides resources to help you identify the Azure Batch account and pool associated with a specific network-related resource in the Azure Subscription.
ms.date: 02/21/2024
author: genlin
ms.author: cabermu
ms.service: batch
--- 

# Understanding Azure Batch Network resources creation

Azure Batch generates network resources, such as network security groups (NSG), public IP addresses, and the Azure Load Balancer, within your subscription. This article offers guidance to identify the network resources that are generated by the Azure Batch account and pool.

## Resource name

Azure Batch creates resources at the subscription level. The resources that are created by Azure Batch follow this format:

- An Azure Load Balancer that's named (Guid)-Azurebatch-cloudserviceloadbalancer
- An Azure public IP address that's named (Guid)-Azurebatch-cloudservicepublicip
- An NSG that's named (Guid)-Azurebatch-cloudservicenetworksecuritygroup

## Resource generated by Batch pool with virtual network integration

When a Batch pool is created by using virtual network integration, the Azure Batch service automatically generates all necessary network resources for the pool's operation. These resources are created in the same resource group in which the virtual network that's being used is located.

:::image type="content" source="media/azure-batch-creates-network-resources/network-resources-created-by-batch.png" alt-text="Screenshot of network resources created by batch." border="true":::

## Use the resource tag to access the linked Batch account or pool 

To identify the Batch resources that are linked to a specific network resource, access the resource, and then check the **Tags** section. That section displays information about the Batch account name and pool name. Notice that after the pool is resized to 0 or deleted, the associated network resources are also deleted.

:::image type="content" source="media/azure-batch-creates-network-resources/batch-network-resources-tags.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Tags information that contains information about the batch account and pool." border="true":::

[!INCLUDE [Azure Help Support](../../includes/azure-help-support.md)]
