support/power-platform/power-automate/desktop-flows/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list.md, before:

---
title: Desktop flow runs are not shown in the list
description: Provides a resolution for the issue that you can't see some desktop flow runs when viewing the list of all desktop flow runs in Power Automate.
ms.reviewer: pefelesk
ms.date: 09/21/2022
ms.subservice: power-automate-desktop-flows
---
# Some desktop flow runs are missing from the list

This article provides a resolution to an issue where some desktop flows aren't displayed in the list of all desktop flow runs in Microsoft Power Automate.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Power Automate  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4598418

## Symptoms

After you select **Monitor** > **Desktop flow runs** in the left navigation pane in Microsoft Power Automate, you can't find your desktop flow runs in the list.

## Verifying issue

1. Check that you are in the same environment as the flows and desktop flows you want to monitor.

    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-environment-for-flows.png" alt-text="Check that you're in the same environment as the flows and desktop flows you want to monitor." lightbox="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-environment-for-flows.png":::

2. Check that the desktop flow hasn't been deleted.

     :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-my-flows.png" alt-text="Check that your desktop flows are shown in the list.":::

3. If the desktop flow is still present, check if some filters are active in the **Monitor** > **Desktop flow runs** page, indicated by the presence of funnel icons in the column headers.

    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-filters-on-desktop-flows.png" alt-text="Check if some filters are configured." lightbox="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-filters-on-desktop-flows.png":::

## Resolution

To solve the issue, you can clear the filters to show the hidden desktop flow runs again. To do that, select the column headers, and then select **Filter by** > **Clear filter** > **Apply**.

Commit message:

update ms.custom for 83 Power automate articles

support/power-platform/power-automate/desktop-flows/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list.md, after:

---
title: Desktop flow runs are not shown in the list
description: Provides a resolution for the issue that you can't see some desktop flow runs when viewing the list of all desktop flow runs in Power Automate.
ms.reviewer: pefelesk
ms.date: 09/21/2022
ms.custom: sap:Desktop flows\Working with Power Automate for desktop
---
# Some desktop flow runs are missing from the list

This article provides a resolution to an issue where some desktop flows aren't displayed in the list of all desktop flow runs in Microsoft Power Automate.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Power Automate  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4598418

## Symptoms

After you select **Monitor** > **Desktop flow runs** in the left navigation pane in Microsoft Power Automate, you can't find your desktop flow runs in the list.

## Verifying issue

1. Check that you are in the same environment as the flows and desktop flows you want to monitor.

    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-environment-for-flows.png" alt-text="Check that you're in the same environment as the flows and desktop flows you want to monitor." lightbox="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-environment-for-flows.png":::

2. Check that the desktop flow hasn't been deleted.

     :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-my-flows.png" alt-text="Check that your desktop flows are shown in the list.":::

3. If the desktop flow is still present, check if some filters are active in the **Monitor** > **Desktop flow runs** page, indicated by the presence of funnel icons in the column headers.

    :::image type="content" source="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-filters-on-desktop-flows.png" alt-text="Check if some filters are configured." lightbox="media/desktop-flow-runs-missing-from-list/check-filters-on-desktop-flows.png":::

## Resolution

To solve the issue, you can clear the filters to show the hidden desktop flow runs again. To do that, select the column headers, and then select **Filter by** > **Clear filter** > **Apply**.
