Outlook/Hub/includes/outlook-content-updates.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated automatically each week. Changes made to this file will be overwritten.-->



## Week of February 05, 2024


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 2/6/2024 | [Embed and play back videos in Outlook and Loop](/outlook/troubleshoot/message-body/embed-playback-videos-in-outlook-and-loop) | added |
| 2/7/2024 | [How to turn off e-mail matching for certificates](/outlook/troubleshoot/security/how-to-turn-off-email-matching-for-certificates) | modified |


## Week of January 22, 2024


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 1/24/2024 | [Add Exchange Server mailboxes in the new Outlook for Mac](/outlook/troubleshoot/connectivity/add-exchange-server-mailboxes-in-outlook) | added |
| 1/25/2024 | [Presence icons do not show in Outlook](/outlook/troubleshoot/user-interface/presence-icons-do-not-show-in-outlook) | modified |


## Week of January 15, 2024


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 1/16/2024 | [Remove a tentative meeting that's automatically added to your calendar](/outlook/troubleshoot/calendaring/deleting-meeting-request-not-remove-it-from-calendar) | modified |

Commit message:

Uploaded file: outlook-content-updates.md - 2024-02-24 23:31:42.7222

Outlook/Hub/includes/outlook-content-updates.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated automatically each week. Changes made to this file will be overwritten.-->



## Week of February 19, 2024


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 2/21/2024 | [Error when you change shared calendar permissions in Outlook for Mac](/outlook/troubleshoot/calendars/access-denied-change-shared-calendar-permissions) | modified |
| 2/21/2024 | [Can't move meetings between calendars in Outlook for Mac](/outlook/troubleshoot/calendars/cannot-move-meetings-between-calendars) | modified |


## Week of February 05, 2024


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 2/6/2024 | [Embed and play back videos in Outlook and Loop](/outlook/troubleshoot/message-body/embed-playback-videos-in-outlook-and-loop) | added |
| 2/7/2024 | [How to turn off e-mail matching for certificates](/outlook/troubleshoot/security/how-to-turn-off-email-matching-for-certificates) | modified |


## Week of January 22, 2024


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 1/24/2024 | [Add Exchange Server mailboxes in the new Outlook for Mac](/outlook/troubleshoot/connectivity/add-exchange-server-mailboxes-in-outlook) | added |
| 1/25/2024 | [Presence icons do not show in Outlook](/outlook/troubleshoot/user-interface/presence-icons-do-not-show-in-outlook) | modified |
