---
title: Mouse and screen resolution issues
description: Provides a solution to mouse and screen resolution issues when managing a virtual machine using the Hyper-V Manager Console.
ms.date: 09/23/2020
author: Deland-Han 
ms.author: delhan
manager: dscontentpm
audience: itpro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.prod: windows-server
localization_priority: medium
ms.reviewer: kaushika, jeffpatt
ms.prod-support-area-path: Configuration of virtual machine settings
ms.technology: HyperV
---
# After a new Hyper-V VMMS certificate is generated, there are mouse and screen resolution issues when you manage a virtual machine using the Hyper-V Manager Console

This article provides a solution to mouse and screen resolution issues when managing a virtual machine using the Hyper-V Manager Console.

_Original product version:_ &nbsp; Windows Server 2012 R2  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 2413735

## Symptoms

On Windows Server 2008 or Windows Server 2008 R2, you may experience one of the following symptoms when you connect to a Hyper-V virtual machine using the Hyper-V Manager console or the System Center Virtual Machine Manager Administrator Console:

- The mouse cursor is frozen or has disappeared

- The screen resolution has reverted to the default size

If you connect to the virtual machine using a Remote Desktop Connection (RDP), the symptoms listed above are not exhibited.

## Cause

This issue can occur after a new Hyper-V VMMS certificate is generated.

Note: The following event will be logged in the Hyper-VMMS event log when a new VMMS certificate is generated:

> Log Name: Microsoft-Windows-Hyper-V-VMMS-Admin  
Source: Microsoft-Windows-Hyper-V-VMMS  
Event ID: 12520  
Level: Warning  
Description:  
Auto-generating a self-signed certificate for server authentication.

## Resolution

To resolve this issue, perform one of the following steps on the Hyper-V server:

- Place the virtual machines in a saved state and then resume the virtual machines.
or

- Restart the virtual machines.

## More information

The self-signed certificate that is generated by the Hyper-V Virtual Machine Management service is valid for one year.

To create a self-signed certificate for Windows Server 2008 R2 systems that doesn't expire for several years, perform the following steps:

1. Copy the PowerShell script from the following Microsoft Web site:

    [https://gallery.technet.microsoft.com/ScriptCenter/be2da634-978b-48d7-b3ab-01c593c9d177](https://gallery.technet.microsoft.com/scriptcenter/be2da634-978b-48d7-b3ab-01c593c9d177)

    Note: This script is valid for Windows Server 2008 R2 only. To configure a Windows Server 2008 or Windows Server 2008 R2 system to use a certificate other than the Hyper-V VMMS certificate, perform the steps documented in the following TechNet article: [https://technet.microsoft.com/library/ff935311(WS.10).aspx](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/ff935311%28ws.10%29.aspx)

2. Paste the script into notepad, and then save the file as Cert.ps1.

3. Copy Makecert.exe to the same directory as the Cert.ps1 file.

    For more information on how to obtain Makecert.exe, please visit the following Microsoft web site: [https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/aa386968(VS.85).aspx](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/aa386968%28vs.85%29.aspx)

4. Open an elevated Windows PowerShell command prompt.

5. Run the Cert.ps1 script.
