support/dynamics/gp/difference-between-full-limited-and-self-service-user-types.md, before:

---
title: Difference between Full, Limited, and Self Service user types
description: This article provides the answer for the question about what is the difference between Full, Limited, and Self Service user types in User Setup in Microsoft Dynamics GP.
ms.reviewer: theley
ms.date: 03/13/2024
---
# Difference between Full, Limited, and Self Service user types in User Setup in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article introduces the difference between Full, Limited, and Self Service user types in **User Setup** in Microsoft Dynamics GP.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4015051

> [!TIP]
> To open the **User Setup** window, select **Tools** under **Microsoft Dynamics GP**, point to **Setup** > **System**, and select **User**.

## Introduction

At a high level, the permissions for each user type are as follows:

- Self Service

  - Ability to create requisitions.
  - Ability to enter Payroll timecards and expenses.
  - Ability to enter Project timesheets and expenses, benefits self service, and workflows. (Also known as **Enter** access.)

- Limited

  The Limited user can do all operations the Self Service user can do. In addition, the Limited user can view all inquiries, reports, and Smartlists. (Also known as **Enter** and **Inquire** access.)
- Full

  The Full user has full control of Microsoft Dynamics GP. (Also known as **Enter**, **Inquire**, and **Edit** access.)

What a user type does in Dynamics GP is always a grey area because you might expect something to function in a specific way and the user type doesn't allow based on the user type specifications. It's recommended to set up a user and test your process if you have limited users.

Sometimes, you want to see a window in the process, but it's unavailable. In this case, it's recommended to always test with a user with that type of user to make sure everything works for their process as you expect.
 
Both Self Service and Limited users can approve workflows.

## More information

The best way to really understand what the users can do is to look at the role-based security inside Microsoft Dynamics GP. For more information, see the following blog articles:

- [What are the SelfServe and Limited Users?](https://community.dynamics.com/blogs/post/?postid=5dd0d260-fd46-49ef-8ada-43ee2cd4db9d)
- [ESS Security roles in Microsoft Dynamics GP 2013/GP2015 - What do they give users access to?](https://community.dynamics.com/blogs/post/?postid=5381b125-c9b6-4f1a-9acf-49034f612b6d)

Commit message:

Add ms.custom sap for 930 Dynamics GP articles

support/dynamics/gp/difference-between-full-limited-and-self-service-user-types.md, after:

---
title: Difference between Full, Limited, and Self Service user types
description: This article provides the answer for the question about what is the difference between Full, Limited, and Self Service user types in User Setup in Microsoft Dynamics GP.
ms.reviewer: theley
ms.date: 03/13/2024
ms.custom: sap:System and Security Setup, Installation, Upgrade, and Migrations
---
# Difference between Full, Limited, and Self Service user types in User Setup in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article introduces the difference between Full, Limited, and Self Service user types in **User Setup** in Microsoft Dynamics GP.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4015051

> [!TIP]
> To open the **User Setup** window, select **Tools** under **Microsoft Dynamics GP**, point to **Setup** > **System**, and select **User**.

## Introduction

At a high level, the permissions for each user type are as follows:

- Self Service

  - Ability to create requisitions.
  - Ability to enter Payroll timecards and expenses.
  - Ability to enter Project timesheets and expenses, benefits self service, and workflows. (Also known as **Enter** access.)

- Limited

  The Limited user can do all operations the Self Service user can do. In addition, the Limited user can view all inquiries, reports, and Smartlists. (Also known as **Enter** and **Inquire** access.)
- Full

  The Full user has full control of Microsoft Dynamics GP. (Also known as **Enter**, **Inquire**, and **Edit** access.)

What a user type does in Dynamics GP is always a grey area because you might expect something to function in a specific way and the user type doesn't allow based on the user type specifications. It's recommended to set up a user and test your process if you have limited users.

Sometimes, you want to see a window in the process, but it's unavailable. In this case, it's recommended to always test with a user with that type of user to make sure everything works for their process as you expect.
 
Both Self Service and Limited users can approve workflows.

## More information

The best way to really understand what the users can do is to look at the role-based security inside Microsoft Dynamics GP. For more information, see the following blog articles:

- [What are the SelfServe and Limited Users?](https://community.dynamics.com/blogs/post/?postid=5dd0d260-fd46-49ef-8ada-43ee2cd4db9d)
- [ESS Security roles in Microsoft Dynamics GP 2013/GP2015 - What do they give users access to?](https://community.dynamics.com/blogs/post/?postid=5381b125-c9b6-4f1a-9acf-49034f612b6d)
