support/dynamics/gp/how-to-add-remove-smartlist-report-from-my-reports.md, before:

---
title: How to add or remove Smartlist report from My Reports
description: How to add or remove a Smartlist report from My Reports.
ms.reviewer: theley, cwaswick
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/13/2024
---
# How to add or remove a Smartlist report from My Reports on the Home Page in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article introduces how to add or remove a Smartlist report from the MY REPORTS section on the Home Page in Microsoft Dynamics GP.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4018557

## How to add the Payroll Employee Smartlist to the My Reports section of my Home Page

1. In the left navigation pane, select **ADMINISTRATION**.
2. In the top-left navigation pane, select **SMARTLIST FAVORITES**.  
3. Scroll down to **EMPLOYEES** in the Name list, and the 'Employee List*' Smartlist name is listed in the middle column (That is **Option** column). Mark the checkbox on the left to select it.  
4. At the top, select the **ADD TO** that is now enabled in the MY REPORTS section. Name it and select **OK**.
5. Select **HOME** in the left navigation pane, and 'Employee List' smartlist should show up in the MY REPORTS section now on your Home Page.

## How to remove the Smartlist from my Home Page

1. Select **ADMINISTRATION** in the left navigation pane.
2. Select **MY REPORTS LIST** in the upper left navigation pane.
3. Mark the checkbox to the left of the 'Employees' smartlist in the list.
4. And then select the **REMOVE FROM** in the MY REPORTS section at the top. The smartlist is immediately removed from the list.
5. Select **HOME** in the left navigation pane, and you should not see the smartlist in the My Reports section anymore.

Commit message:

Add ms.custom sap for 930 Dynamics GP articles

support/dynamics/gp/how-to-add-remove-smartlist-report-from-my-reports.md, after:

---
title: How to add or remove Smartlist report from My Reports
description: How to add or remove a Smartlist report from My Reports.
ms.reviewer: theley, cwaswick
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/13/2024
ms.custom: sap:System and Security Setup, Installation, Upgrade, and Migrations
---
# How to add or remove a Smartlist report from My Reports on the Home Page in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article introduces how to add or remove a Smartlist report from the MY REPORTS section on the Home Page in Microsoft Dynamics GP.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4018557

## How to add the Payroll Employee Smartlist to the My Reports section of my Home Page

1. In the left navigation pane, select **ADMINISTRATION**.
2. In the top-left navigation pane, select **SMARTLIST FAVORITES**.  
3. Scroll down to **EMPLOYEES** in the Name list, and the 'Employee List*' Smartlist name is listed in the middle column (That is **Option** column). Mark the checkbox on the left to select it.  
4. At the top, select the **ADD TO** that is now enabled in the MY REPORTS section. Name it and select **OK**.
5. Select **HOME** in the left navigation pane, and 'Employee List' smartlist should show up in the MY REPORTS section now on your Home Page.

## How to remove the Smartlist from my Home Page

1. Select **ADMINISTRATION** in the left navigation pane.
2. Select **MY REPORTS LIST** in the upper left navigation pane.
3. Mark the checkbox to the left of the 'Employees' smartlist in the list.
4. And then select the **REMOVE FROM** in the MY REPORTS section at the top. The smartlist is immediately removed from the list.
5. Select **HOME** in the left navigation pane, and you should not see the smartlist in the My Reports section anymore.
