support/dynamics/gp/start-the-program-do-other-tasks.md, before:

---
title: Start the program and do other tasks
description: Discusses how to automatically generate reports, start the program, and do other tasks by using macros and Scheduled Tasks in Microsoft Dynamics GP.
ms.reviewer: theley, kyouells
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/13/2024
---
# How to use macros and Scheduled Tasks to automatically start the program and to do other tasks in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article discusses how to create and how to run macros to do various tasks in Microsoft Dynamics GP and in Microsoft Business Solutions - Great Plains.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 856496

## Introduction

The macros can be used to automatically start the program, to generate reports, and to do other tasks. This article also discusses how to use Scheduled Tasks to run the macros.

## More information

1. To create and to run a macro that automatically generates reports or that does other tasks, follow these steps:

    1. Start Microsoft Dynamics GP. Don't sign in.
    2. In the **Welcome to Microsoft Dynamics GP** dialog box, press **ALT+F8** to start recording the sign-in macro. Name the macro, and then save it to the installation folder for Microsoft Dynamics GP.

        > [!NOTE]
        > If the macro isn't in the installation folder, you will receive the following error message:  
        > Cannot open macro

    3. In the **Server** box, select a server.

        > [!NOTE]
        > It's important to select the appropriate server when you create the macro, even if the correct server was selected when you started Microsoft Dynamics GP.

    4. In the **User ID** field, enter the appropriate information for the user who will generate the report or who will generate other tasks.

        > [!NOTE]
        >
        > - It's important to do this step when you create the macro, even if the correct user ID is displayed when you start Microsoft Dynamics GP.
        > - To make sure that the desired user ID is recorded within the macro, we recommended that you delete any existing user ID from the field, move to the **Password** field, return to the **User ID** field, and then enter the desired ID.

    5. In the **Password** field, type the password for the user who is selected in step 1d.
    6. Select **OK**. The **Company Login** dialog box opens.
    7. From the **Company** list, select the company for which you want to sign in, and then select **OK**.

        > [!NOTE]
        > It's important to select the appropriate company when you create the macro, even if the correct company is selected when the Company Login window opens.
    8. Complete all the steps that are required to process the reports or other tasks within this company.
    9. On the **File** menu, select **Exit** to close Microsoft Dynamics GP.

2. Use a text editor, such as Notepad, to add the following line as the second line of the macro.

    > Logging file 'macro.log'

    > [!NOTE]
    > This line prevents any message that is displayed by the macro from being displayed. Therefore, such a message cannot prevent a logon to Microsoft Dynamics GP. An example of such a message is the total run time of the macro. All messages that are generated by the macro are written to the Macro.log file.

3. To start Microsoft Dynamics GP by using the macro, create a batch file. To do it, follow these steps:
    1. Create a file that has a .bat file name extension. For example, create a file that is named *DynamicsGP.bat*.
    2. Use a text editor, such as Notepad, to open the batch file.
    3. Paste the following line into the .bat file.

        `dynamics dynamics.set XXX.mac cd c:\Dynamics GP installation path`

        > [!NOTE]
        > Replace **XXX.mac** with the name of the macro file that you assigned in Step 1b. Replace **Dynamics GP installation path** with the installation path of Microsoft Dynamics GP on this computer. For example, type the following path:  
        `Program Files\Microsoft Dynamics\GP`

    4. Save the changes, and then close the batch file.
4. Configure Scheduled Tasks to run the batch file that will run the macro that you created. For more information about how to use Scheduled Tasks, see the Windows manuals or Windows online documentation.

Commit message:

Add ms.custom sap for 930 Dynamics GP articles

support/dynamics/gp/start-the-program-do-other-tasks.md, after:

---
title: Start the program and do other tasks
description: Discusses how to automatically generate reports, start the program, and do other tasks by using macros and Scheduled Tasks in Microsoft Dynamics GP.
ms.reviewer: theley, kyouells
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/13/2024
ms.custom: sap:System and Security Setup, Installation, Upgrade, and Migrations
---
# How to use macros and Scheduled Tasks to automatically start the program and to do other tasks in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article discusses how to create and how to run macros to do various tasks in Microsoft Dynamics GP and in Microsoft Business Solutions - Great Plains.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 856496

## Introduction

The macros can be used to automatically start the program, to generate reports, and to do other tasks. This article also discusses how to use Scheduled Tasks to run the macros.

## More information

1. To create and to run a macro that automatically generates reports or that does other tasks, follow these steps:

    1. Start Microsoft Dynamics GP. Don't sign in.
    2. In the **Welcome to Microsoft Dynamics GP** dialog box, press **ALT+F8** to start recording the sign-in macro. Name the macro, and then save it to the installation folder for Microsoft Dynamics GP.

        > [!NOTE]
        > If the macro isn't in the installation folder, you will receive the following error message:  
        > Cannot open macro

    3. In the **Server** box, select a server.

        > [!NOTE]
        > It's important to select the appropriate server when you create the macro, even if the correct server was selected when you started Microsoft Dynamics GP.

    4. In the **User ID** field, enter the appropriate information for the user who will generate the report or who will generate other tasks.

        > [!NOTE]
        >
        > - It's important to do this step when you create the macro, even if the correct user ID is displayed when you start Microsoft Dynamics GP.
        > - To make sure that the desired user ID is recorded within the macro, we recommended that you delete any existing user ID from the field, move to the **Password** field, return to the **User ID** field, and then enter the desired ID.

    5. In the **Password** field, type the password for the user who is selected in step 1d.
    6. Select **OK**. The **Company Login** dialog box opens.
    7. From the **Company** list, select the company for which you want to sign in, and then select **OK**.

        > [!NOTE]
        > It's important to select the appropriate company when you create the macro, even if the correct company is selected when the Company Login window opens.
    8. Complete all the steps that are required to process the reports or other tasks within this company.
    9. On the **File** menu, select **Exit** to close Microsoft Dynamics GP.

2. Use a text editor, such as Notepad, to add the following line as the second line of the macro.

    > Logging file 'macro.log'

    > [!NOTE]
    > This line prevents any message that is displayed by the macro from being displayed. Therefore, such a message cannot prevent a logon to Microsoft Dynamics GP. An example of such a message is the total run time of the macro. All messages that are generated by the macro are written to the Macro.log file.

3. To start Microsoft Dynamics GP by using the macro, create a batch file. To do it, follow these steps:
    1. Create a file that has a .bat file name extension. For example, create a file that is named *DynamicsGP.bat*.
    2. Use a text editor, such as Notepad, to open the batch file.
    3. Paste the following line into the .bat file.

        `dynamics dynamics.set XXX.mac cd c:\Dynamics GP installation path`

        > [!NOTE]
        > Replace **XXX.mac** with the name of the macro file that you assigned in Step 1b. Replace **Dynamics GP installation path** with the installation path of Microsoft Dynamics GP on this computer. For example, type the following path:  
        `Program Files\Microsoft Dynamics\GP`

    4. Save the changes, and then close the batch file.
4. Configure Scheduled Tasks to run the batch file that will run the macro that you created. For more information about how to use Scheduled Tasks, see the Windows manuals or Windows online documentation.
