---
title: Tools for Sales Order and PO Processing
description: Information about tools that are available for Sales Order Processing and Purchase Order Processing in Microsoft Dynamics GP.
ms.reviewer: theley
ms.date: 04/17/2025
ms.custom: sap:Distribution - Sales Order Processing
---
# Information about tools that are available for Sales Order Processing and Purchase Order Processing in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article describes the tools that are available for Sales Order Processing and for Purchase Order Processing in Professional Services Tools Library for Microsoft Dynamics GP.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 859923

## Introduction

The following sample is a list of the tools that are available for Sales Order Processing and for Purchase Order Processing.

> [!NOTE]
> Some tools are free and some must be purchased.

For more information about these tools, use one of the following options:

**Customers**:  
For more information about these tools, contact your partner of record. If you don't have a partner of record, visit [Microsoft Pinpoint](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/home) to identify a partner.

**Partners**:  
For more information about the free tools, visit [Microsoft Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/solutions/business-applications/dynamics-onprem).

## More information

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The tools denoted below with an asterisk (*) must still be purchased. The tools without an asterisk are free.

### Sales Order Processing Negative Line Items

This tool lets you add a non-inventoried line item with a negative price to reduce the total amount of the invoice. This line can't be taxable, but commissions will also be reduced based on this line item.

### *Sales Order Processing Lot Number Overrides

This tool is for companies that use lot number processing. This tool is useful when lot numbers are sold before they're entered into the system through Purchase Order Processing or through Bill of Materials. This tool creates a temporary lot number receipt during the Sales Order Transaction entry process that enables the system to manage the lot number quantity accurately. The temporary receipt is removed after it receives the lot number through Purchase Order Processing, through Bill of Materials, or through Inventory. Then, the actual lot receipt is updated to reflect that a part of the inventory has already been sold.

### *Sales Order Processing Partial Kit Transfer

This tool is for companies that use kit items. This tool is useful to create a large order but transfer only some kit line items to an invoice at a time. This tool lets companies transfer kit items from an order to an invoice only. This tool doesn't handle back orders. When kit items are moved from an order to an invoice, this tool treats kit items the same as standard items, maintaining the **Quantity Previously Invoiced** value from both the overall line items and the component line items.

### Sales Order Processing to Purchase Order Processing Line Recording Utility

This tool changes the order of purchase order line items that are generated by the Sales Order Processing. The order is changed to the Purchasing Ordering Processing transfer process. The order is reverted to the original order that was used on the sales order documents. The preview report lists the items alphabetically. However, the line items in the purchase order document maintain their correct sequence. It's important for companies that have to match purchase order printouts to packing lists or to picking tickets in Sales Order Processing.

### Purchase Order Processing Cost Defaulter

This tool lets you use the **Standard Cost** value or the **Current Cost** value in the Purchase Order Processing Entry window. By default, the vendor-specific **Last Invoice Cost** value is used in the Purchase Order Processing Entry window.

### Customer PO Number Check

This tool examines the **Customer PO Number** field for duplicate numbers as data is entered into the field in the Sales Transaction Entry window and in the SOP Customer Detail Entry window.

### Default Add Item for POP/SOP

This tool selects the **Add Item** option in the following windows:

- Sales Transaction Entry
- Purchase Order Entry
- Receivings Transaction Entry
- Purchasing Invoice Entry

### PO Returns

When you invoice a receipt in Purchase Order Processing, this tool examines the previous quantity invoiced and the quantity returned for the line item. The maximum quantity that can be invoiced is based on the following formula:  
Quantity Shipped - (Previous Quantity Invoiced + Quantity Returned)

This tool doesn't let you invoice more than this amount.

### POP Over Receipt Tolerance

This tool enables a receipt tolerance percentage for quantities. A setup window lets the user enter a tolerance percentage that is used when a purchase order is received. The highest quantity that can be received is the original quantity ordered plus the percentage amount. For example, assume that a purchase order is entered for a quantity of 10. Then, a tolerance percentage of 20 percent is entered. The highest quantity that can be received is 12.

### Shipment Notification

This tool allows for drop ship sales orders to be transferred to an invoice before you invoice the purchase order.

### SOP Default Site per Line

This tool changes the site that is used for line items. Instead of using the site from the **Default Site** field in the Sales Transaction Entry window, the value in the **Default Site ID** field in the Item Quantities Maintenance window is used. If the **Default Site ID** field in the Item Quantities Maintenance window is empty, the first site that is assigned to the item is used.

### *SOP Return Account Default

This tool populates the sales order returns account when a return is created in the Sales Transaction Entry window by selecting the **Create Return** option. As the SALES distribution type is created for the return, this tool uses the account that is displayed in the **Sales Order Returns** field in the Customer Account Maintenance window.

### SOP Sort Line Items

This tool lets the user define custom sorting options to display line items in the Sales Transaction Entry window. For example, a sort may be defined by item number. Then, the selected document displays the line items in item number order instead of in the order that the line items were entered. This tool doesn't physically reorder the records in the tables. This tool only displays the records differently in the Sales Transaction Entry window. This tool also doesn't affect the order in which sales documents print.
