support/dynamics/gp/use-e-mail-messages-send-letters-statements.md, before:

---
title: Use e-mail messages to send letters, statements, and invoices
description: This article describes how to set up a query and use it to send letters, statements, and invoices by using e-mail messages.
ms.reviewer: theley
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/13/2024
---
# Use e-mail messages to send letters, statements, and invoices to customers in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article describes how to set up a query and use it to send letters, statements, and invoices by using e-mail messages.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 903690

## Introduction

This article describes how to use e-mail messages to send letters, statements, and invoices to many customers in Microsoft Dynamics GP. You can set up a query and then use the Collections Management query letters (third party product) to send these items.

> [!NOTE]
> You do not need Collections Management installed in order to send letters, statements and invoices to customers in Microsoft Dynamics GP.

## More information

To use e-mail messages to send letters, statements, and invoices, follow these steps:

1. Create a letter, statement, or invoice.

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you intend to send letters, statements, or invoices in Portable Document Format (PDF), Adobe Acrobat and Adobe Reader must be installed.

2. Set up Microsoft Dynamics GP to send e-mail messages to the status recipient. To do this, follow these steps:

   1. In Microsoft Dynamics GP 10.0, point to **Tools** on the **Microsoft Dynamics GP** menu, point to **Setup**, point to **Sales**, and then select **Receivables**.

      In Microsoft Dynamics GP 9.0 and in Microsoft Business Solutions - Great Plains 8.0, point to **Setup** on the **Tools** menu, point to **Sales**, and then select **Receivables**.

   2. In the Receivables Management Setup window, enter an e-mail address in the **Status Recipient** box, and then select **OK**.

      > [!NOTE]
      > This e-mail address belongs to the person who will use e-mail messages to send statements to customers.

   3. Point to **Sales** on the **Cards** menu, and then select **Customer**. In the **Customer ID** field, type a customer ID.
   4. In the Customer Maintenance window, select **Options**.
   5. In the Customer Maintenance Options window, select to select the **Send E-mail Statements** check box, and then enter an e-mail address in the **To** box. The **CC** and **BCC** boxes are optional.
   6. Select **OK**.

3. Set up a query for all customers. To do this, follow these steps: (In GP 2013 and later versions, you need to purchase and install 'Collections Management' to do build queries and query letters. This is a third-party add-on product.)

   1. Point to **Sales** on the **Transactions** menu, and then select **Build Query**. (If you have the Collections Management module installed. This is a third-party module.)
   2. In the Collections Management Build Query window, enter the required information in the **Query ID** and **Description** boxes.
   3. On the **Customer** tab, select to select the type of query in the **Customer** box, and then select the range by using the **From** and the **To** boxes.

      For example, if you want to select all customers, select to select the first customer in the **From** box, and then select to select the last customer in the **To** box.

   4. Select **Insert** to insert the range.
   5. Repeat steps 2a through step 2d if you want to add other ranges for this query.
   6. Select **Save**.

4. Use the query to send the letters, statements, or invoices. To do this, follow these steps:

   1. Point to **Sales** on the **Transactions** menu, and then select **Query Letters**. (If you have the Collections Management module installed. This is a third-party party module.)
   2. Select to select one or more of the following check boxes:

      - Print Letters
      - Print Statements
      - Print Invoices

   3. Select **Print**.
   4. In the Collections Management Query Actions window, select **Email**. The third-party products that this article discusses are manufactured by companies that are independent of Microsoft. Microsoft makes no warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding the performance or reliability of these products.

For more information about emailing in Dynamics GP using Word Template functionality, see [Email RM customer statements in Microsoft Dynamics GP](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/d20a5633-74f3-ba84-28d1-e6e3f9720ab0).

Commit message:

Add ms.custom sap for 930 Dynamics GP articles

support/dynamics/gp/use-e-mail-messages-send-letters-statements.md, after:

---
title: Use e-mail messages to send letters, statements, and invoices
description: This article describes how to set up a query and use it to send letters, statements, and invoices by using e-mail messages.
ms.reviewer: theley
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/13/2024
ms.custom: sap:System and Security Setup, Installation, Upgrade, and Migrations
---
# Use e-mail messages to send letters, statements, and invoices to customers in Microsoft Dynamics GP

This article describes how to set up a query and use it to send letters, statements, and invoices by using e-mail messages.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics GP  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 903690

## Introduction

This article describes how to use e-mail messages to send letters, statements, and invoices to many customers in Microsoft Dynamics GP. You can set up a query and then use the Collections Management query letters (third party product) to send these items.

> [!NOTE]
> You do not need Collections Management installed in order to send letters, statements and invoices to customers in Microsoft Dynamics GP.

## More information

To use e-mail messages to send letters, statements, and invoices, follow these steps:

1. Create a letter, statement, or invoice.

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you intend to send letters, statements, or invoices in Portable Document Format (PDF), Adobe Acrobat and Adobe Reader must be installed.

2. Set up Microsoft Dynamics GP to send e-mail messages to the status recipient. To do this, follow these steps:

   1. In Microsoft Dynamics GP 10.0, point to **Tools** on the **Microsoft Dynamics GP** menu, point to **Setup**, point to **Sales**, and then select **Receivables**.

      In Microsoft Dynamics GP 9.0 and in Microsoft Business Solutions - Great Plains 8.0, point to **Setup** on the **Tools** menu, point to **Sales**, and then select **Receivables**.

   2. In the Receivables Management Setup window, enter an e-mail address in the **Status Recipient** box, and then select **OK**.

      > [!NOTE]
      > This e-mail address belongs to the person who will use e-mail messages to send statements to customers.

   3. Point to **Sales** on the **Cards** menu, and then select **Customer**. In the **Customer ID** field, type a customer ID.
   4. In the Customer Maintenance window, select **Options**.
   5. In the Customer Maintenance Options window, select to select the **Send E-mail Statements** check box, and then enter an e-mail address in the **To** box. The **CC** and **BCC** boxes are optional.
   6. Select **OK**.

3. Set up a query for all customers. To do this, follow these steps: (In GP 2013 and later versions, you need to purchase and install 'Collections Management' to do build queries and query letters. This is a third-party add-on product.)

   1. Point to **Sales** on the **Transactions** menu, and then select **Build Query**. (If you have the Collections Management module installed. This is a third-party module.)
   2. In the Collections Management Build Query window, enter the required information in the **Query ID** and **Description** boxes.
   3. On the **Customer** tab, select to select the type of query in the **Customer** box, and then select the range by using the **From** and the **To** boxes.

      For example, if you want to select all customers, select to select the first customer in the **From** box, and then select to select the last customer in the **To** box.

   4. Select **Insert** to insert the range.
   5. Repeat steps 2a through step 2d if you want to add other ranges for this query.
   6. Select **Save**.

4. Use the query to send the letters, statements, or invoices. To do this, follow these steps:

   1. Point to **Sales** on the **Transactions** menu, and then select **Query Letters**. (If you have the Collections Management module installed. This is a third-party party module.)
   2. Select to select one or more of the following check boxes:

      - Print Letters
      - Print Statements
      - Print Invoices

   3. Select **Print**.
   4. In the Collections Management Query Actions window, select **Email**. The third-party products that this article discusses are manufactured by companies that are independent of Microsoft. Microsoft makes no warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding the performance or reliability of these products.

For more information about emailing in Dynamics GP using Word Template functionality, see [Email RM customer statements in Microsoft Dynamics GP](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/d20a5633-74f3-ba84-28d1-e6e3f9720ab0).
