---
title: ESENT event IDs 1000, 1202, 412, and 454
description: Fixes ESENT event IDs 1000, 1202, 412, and 454 that are logged repeatedly in the Application log.
ms.date: 12/26/2023
author: Deland-Han
ms.author: delhan
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: itpro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
localization_priority: medium
ms.reviewer: kaushika
ms.custom: sap:active-directory-database-issues-and-domain-controller-boot-failures, csstroubleshoot
---
# ESENT event IDs 1000, 1202, 412, and 454 are logged repeatedly in the Application log

This article provides a solution to an issue where ESENT event IDs 1000, 1202, 412, and 454 are logged repeatedly in the Application log.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Windows 2000  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 278316

## Symptoms

The following event IDs are logged every five minutes in the Application log:

- 1000
- 1202
- 412
- 454

## Cause

This issue occurs if the local Group Policy database file is corrupt.

## Resolution

To resolve this issue, use the procedure described in this section to re-create the local Group Policy file.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Implementing a security template on a domain controller may change the settings of the Default Domain Controller Policy or Default Domain Policy. The applied template may overwrite permissions on new files, registry keys and system services created by other programs. Restoring these policies might be necessary after applying a security template. Before performing these steps on a domain controller, create a backup of the SYSVOL share.

> [!NOTE]
> When you use the following procedure, your computer is returned to the original installation state where the Local Security Policy is not defined. You may have to start your computer in Safe mode to rename or move files. For more information about how to do this, see Windows 2000 Help.

1. Open the %SystemRoot%\Security folder, create a new folder, and then name it "OldSecurity".
2. Move all of the files ending in .log from the %SystemRoot%\Security folder to the OldSecurity folder.
3. Find the Secedit.sdb file in the %SystemRoot%\Security\Database folder, and then rename this file to "Secedit.old".
4. Click Start, click Run, type mmc, and then click OK.
5. Click Console, click **Add/Remove Snap-in**, and then add the Security and Configuration snap-in.
6. Right-click **Security and Configuration and Analysis**, and then click Open Database.
7. Browse to the %TEMP% folder, type Secedit.sdb in the **File name** box, and then click **Open**.
8. When you are prompted to import a template, click **Setup Security.inf**, and then click Open.
9. Copy %TEMP%\Secedit.sdb %SystemRoot%\Security\Database.
