---
title: Gather SharePoint 2013 Workflow troubleshooting data with ShowScopeDebugInfo
description: Describes how to get troubleshooting information about Workflows.
author: salarson
manager: dcscontentpm
localization_priority: Normal
search.appverid: 
- MET150
audience: ITPro
ms.prod: sharepoint-server-itpro
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: 
- CSSTroubleshoot
- CI 151719
ms.author: v-matham
appliesto:
- SharePoint Online
---

# Gather SharePoint 2013 Workflow troubleshooting data with ShowScopeDebugInfo

The **ShowScopeDebugInfo()** function provides an easier way to troubleshoot common problems that affect SharePoint 2013 Workflows, and also provide additional information to Support agents who help you to resolve Workflow problems.

## How to run the ShowScopeDebugInfo() function

1. On the site that's experiencing the Workflow problem, select Settings (the gear icon), and then select **Site Settings** > **Workflow Settings** > **Workflow Health**.
    - You can also access Workflow Health from a URL. For example: `https://<contoso>.sharepoint.com/sites/<test>/_layouts/15/WorkflowServiceHealth.aspx`. (In this example, replace *contoso* with your domain, and *test* with the name of the SharePoint site.)
1. Open the Developer tools from a web browser (Edge or Google Chrome is recommended).
    - For Microsoft Edge, press the F12 key.
    - For Google Chrome, press Shift+Ctrl+J.

1. Select **Console**.
1. Enter the following function name: **ShowScopeDebugInfo()**.
    - Press Enter. The command will execute a JavaScript function to print the data in the background.
    - **Note**: The Workflow Service Health page must be refreshed to get updated data from ShowScopeDebugInfo. The information that's generated by ShowScopeDebugInfo is not returned in real time. There is a slight delay before the results are updated.

**Sample output**:
```
{
  "SupportDocument": "https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=847765",
  "ScopePath": "/spo/ec63b09b-9748-47ba-9018-beeadd405204/f19089ae-d6c6-4feb-be0b-ff4de40a04fc/88890858-ae38-407a-b1e7-152c7cff6fe5",
  "WorkflowEndpoint": "spo-dm3-001.workflow.windows.net",
  "WorkflowAppId": "i:0i.t|ms.sp.ext|5958c314-3699-407a-b142-2d459b5161c4@72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47",
  "IsThrottled": false,
  "ThrottledUntil": "",
  "ActiveMessageCount": "965436",
  "StatusDetails": "MaxTopicSize",
  "ScopeSizeInBytes": "6447069028",
  "MaxScopeSizeInBytes": "6442450944",
  "CorrelationFilterCount": "1851",
  "MaxCorrelationFilterCount": "100000",
  "ScopeUsageInfoAggregatedByWorkflow": [
    {
      "workflowName": "87effe93-5c6a-474d-8a72-0ef451ff0100",
      "workflowDisplayName": "ANewWF",
      "sizeInBytes": 0,
      "correlationFilterCount": 0
    },
    {
      "workflowName": "df26aa85-85a7-4466-a273-1775c9da38bb",
      "workflowDisplayName": "Neat2013ListWorkflow",
      "sizeInBytes": 52591272,
      "correlationFilterCount": 1827
    },
    {
      "workflowName": "fc7a63c5-ff72-42e5-87fd-3f2944f8a6ef",
      "workflowDisplayName": "Spec_Document_Approval",
      "sizeInBytes": 277327,
      "correlationFilterCount": 24
    }
  ]
}
```

## How to read the results

<table>
<tr><th>Label</th><th>Definition</th></tr>
<tr><td><b>SupportDocument</b></td><td>SharePoint 2013 Workflow public documentation to help workflow authors avoid common problematic Workflow designs and common errors.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>ScopePath</b></td><td>Required information to engage SharePoint 2013 Workflow feature owners.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>WorkflowEndpoint</b></td><td>Required information to engage SharePoint 2013 Workflow feature owners.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>WorkflowAppId</b></td><td>Required information to engage SharePoint 2013 Workflow feature owners.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>IsThrottled</b></td><td>Indicates whether the Azure Workflow Service is throttling the current SharePoint site's SharePoint 2013 Workflows. Throttling is per SharePoint site, and is evaluated every 10 minutes. If all the SharePoint 2013 Workflow instances exceed the dynamic throttling limit, the Azure Workflow Service will throttle all SharePoint 2013 Workflow instances for a minimum of five minutes, and Workflow Instances will resume during the next 10-minute processing window.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>ThrottledUntil</b></td><td>If <b>IsThrottled</b> is true, then <b>ThrottledUntil</b> will contain a UTC date and time to indicate when the throttling will expire.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>ActiveMessageCount</b></td><td>Represents the ServiceBus Subscription <a href="/azure/service-bus-messaging/message-counters">ActiveMessageCount</a>. As SharePoint 2013 Workflow instances are initiated, Messages are queued in Azure ServiceBus and these Messages are processed by the Azure Workflow Service backend. If SharePoint 2013 Workflow instances are processing slowly, it’s frequently due to throttling and/or a large Azure ServiceBus queue, as indicated by the ActiveMessageCount.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>StatusDetails</b></td><td>Indicates the reason the current SharePoint site's SharePoint 2013 Workflows are not progressing and why it isn’t possible to start SharePoint 2013 Workflow instances manually or automatically. Currently, <b>MaxTopicSize</b> and <b>MaxCorrelationFilter</b> are included to indicate which limit was exceeded.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>ScopeSizeInBytes</b></td><td>Represents a SharePoint site's SharePoint 2013 Workflow storage in the Azure Workflow Service. The Azure Workflow Service uses Azure Service Bus and Azure SQL to enable SharePoint 2013 Workflows. Each SharePoint site is allocated 6 GB. The Azure Workflow Service is the cloud version of the on-premises Workflow Manager. If <b>ScopeSizeInBytes</b> exceeded <b>MaxScopeSizeInBytes</b> the <b>StatusDetails</b> will indicate <b>MaxTopicSize</b>. This means that the limit was exceeded, and SharePoint 2013 Workflow instances won’t start when they are triggered manually or by creating and editing data in SharePoint Online. It's possible to figure out which SharePoint 2013 Workflow is using the most space by examining <b>ScopeUsageInfoAggregatedByWorkflow</b>. <b>ScopeUsageInfoAggregatedByWorkflow</b> isn't returned in real time but is relatively up-to-date. Each SharePoint 2013 Workflow contains <b>sizeInBytes</b> and could be used as a guide for identifying which SharePoint 2013 Workflow to remove from a SharePoint List or Library. By removing a SharePoint 2013 Workflow from a List or Library's <b>Workflow Settings</b> page, a cleanup process is initiated. After that process finishes, the SharePoint site's Workflow will resume processing. The <b>StatusDetails</b> column will no longer contain <b>MaxTopicSize</b> or <b>copeSizeInBytes</b>. It will be smaller than <b>MaxScopeSizeInBytes</b>. It will be possible to start SharePoint 2013 Workflows.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>MaxScopeSizeInBytes</b></td><td>Represents the maximum storage that's allocated in Azure Workflow Service for the current SharePoint site.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>CorrelationFilterCount</b></td><td>Represents the Azure Workflow Service current usage of Azure ServiceBus <a href="/azure/service-bus-messaging/topic-filters">Correlation Filters</a>. When a simple SharePoint 2013 Workflow is started manually or by creating or editing data in SharePoint Online, two Correlation Filters are used per Workflow instance. As a SharePoint 2013 Workflow becomes more complex, more correlation filters are used. Actions such as <i>Wait for Field to Change</i> or <i>Wait for Change in List</i> completely consume correlation filters.

<b>MaxCorrelationFilterCount</b> represents the maximum Correlation Filter limit at 100,000. If the simplest SharePoint 2013 Workflow is created, this means there's a maximum of 50,000 active Workflow instances per SharePoint site. However, it's unlikely you can reach 50,000 Workflow instances because most Workflows use more than the default two correlation filters that are necessary to start a Workflow instance. After a Workflow instance finishes, the correlation filter count is decreased. This makes room for more Workflow instances. 

If <b>CorrelationFilterCount</b> is greater than <b>MaxCorrelationFilterCount</b>, the <b>StatusDetails</b> will contain **MaxCorrelationFilter**. It won’t be possible to start Workflow instances. The same behavior described in **ScopeSizeInBytes** will happen when **CorrelationFilterCount** exceeds **MaxCorrelationFilterCount**. Also, the same solution is possible. Use the **ScopeUsageInfoAggregatedByWorkflow** and find the Workflow with the highest **correlationFilterCount** and consider removing it from the SharePoint List or Library, using the **Workflow Settings** page. If a SharePoint 2013 Workflow is deleted using SharePoint Designer, it will delete the Workflow logic and the Workflow will need to be recreated. It’s best to remove the Workflow using the **Workflows Settings** page, and then adjust the Workflow logic based on the recommendations that found [here](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=847765).</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>MaxCorrelationFilterCount</b></td><td>Represents the Correlation Filter count that's allocated in Azure Workflow Service for the current SharePoint site.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>ScopeUsageInfoAggregatedByWorkflow</b></td><td>Contains the current SharePoint site's SharePoint 2013 Workflows. Each Workflow contains the following data: workflowName, workflowDisplayName, sizeInBytes, and correlationFilterCount. The data in <b>ScopeUsageInfoAggregatedByWorkflow</b> isn't updated in real time. It’s a snapshot that's frequently updated.

<b>workflowName</b> maps to the <a href="/dotnet/api/microsoft.sharepoint.workflowservices.workflowsubscription.id">WorkflowSubscription.Id</a>.

<b>workflowDisplayName</b> maps to <a href="/dotnet/api/microsoft.sharepoint.workflowservices.workflowsubscription.name">WorkflowSubscription.Name</a>.  This is the SharePoint 2013 Workflow's name in the SharePoint UX. This name can differ from the one that's in SharePoint Designer.

<b>sizeInBytes</b> is the Workflows storage usage. This is aggregated into <b>ScopeSizeInBytes</b>.

<b>correlationFilterCount</b> is the Workflows Correlation Filter usage.l This is aggregated into <b>CorrelationFilterCount</b>.</td></tr></table>
