---
title: Microsoft Azure Virtual Network Troubleshooter package
description: Describes how to troubleshoot issues that affect Microsoft Azure virtual networks by using a troubleshooter package.
author: genlin
ms.author: genli
ms.service: virtual-network
ms.date: 03/13/2024
ms.reviewer: aconkle, kaushika, kledman
---
# [SDP3][fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184] Microsoft Azure Virtual Network Troubleshooter package

_Original product version:_ &nbsp; Virtual Network  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 2996010

## Summary

This article describes how to troubleshoot issues with Microsoft Azure virtual networks by using a troubleshooter package. This diagnostic package takes advantage of the capabilities of the Azure PowerShell module and Azure Virtual Network representational state transfer (REST) APIs to perform the following tasks:

- Identify both the Azure virtual network (VNET) and the local network experiencing the VPN issue - List only Azure VNETs that have gateways, and we show only local network connections that are specific to the selected Azure VNET. If the customer selects a VNET that has no local network connection, or if the customer has no VNETS that have gateways, the diagnostic provides the customer with links to relevant documentation.
- Network configuration XML parsing - Parses the network configuration XML and includes it in a report in order to make it easier to understand and summarize customers' configurations.
- Azure Gateway Diagnostics - Similar to [the tool we recently released for public download](https://github.com/azureautomation/azure-virtual-network-gateway-diagnostics--vpn-/blob/master/Azure_Gateway_Diagnostics.ps1), the diagnostic package creates a three-minute Azure Gateway diagnostic file and asks the customer to turn on logging on the on-premises device and to reproduce the issue that he or she is experiencing.
- On-premises device configuration file and logging file - Prompts the customer to provide us with the device configuration and log file (after we ask the customer to reproduce the VPN issue).
- Virtual Network features configuration data collection :
  - Network Security Group (NSG)
  - Static IP (VNet and public)
  - Instance-level public IP (PIP)
  - ExpressRouteDNS (VNet, instance, and subnet level)

### Package information

A supported package is now available from Microsoft Support. To obtain the Microsoft Azure Virtual Network Troubleshooter package, submit a request to Microsoft Online Customer Services. To do this, go to the following Microsoft Support website:

[https://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=6294451](https://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=6294451)

> [!NOTE]
> If additional issues occur, or if any troubleshooting is required, you might have to create a separate service request. The usual support costs will apply to additional support questions and to issues that do not qualify for this specific package. To create a separate service request, go to the following Microsoft website:
>
> [https://support.microsoft.com/contactus/?ws=support](https://support.microsoft.com/contactus/?ws=support)

## More information

### Information that is collected

- Network configuration XML

- On-premises VPN device configuration

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/vpn-device-configuration.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the on-premises V P N device configuration.":::

- On-premises VPN device log

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/vpn-device-log.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the on-premises V P N device log.":::

- Azure Gateway diagnostics log

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/azure-gateway-diagnostics-log.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Azure Gateway diagnostics log.":::

- Azure Gateway connection statistics

### Execution details

The following steps and screenshots provide a walk-through of the diagnostic package:

1. Provide your credentials to authenticate to the affected Azure subscription.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/authentication-page.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Authentication to Azure Subscription page.":::

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/sign-in-page.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the sign-in page in Microsoft Azure.":::

2. Confirm the Azure subscription name.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/azure-subscription-name.png" alt-text="Screenshot to confirm the Azure subscription name.":::

3. Select the scenario that best fits the issue that is being experienced.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/scenario-fit-issue.png" alt-text="Screenshot to select the scenario that best fits the issue.":::

4. Select the affected Azure virtual network.

   :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/affected-azure-virtual-network.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Azure V P N Virtual Network Selection page.":::

5. Select a local network.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/local-network.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Azure V P N Local Network Selection page.":::

6. Respond to the prompt for an on-premises device configuration file.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/prompt-device-configuration-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the prompt for the on-premises device configuration file."::::::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/upload-device-configuration-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot to upload the device configuration file.":::

7. Notify the customer about Azure Gateway diagnostics collection.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/diagnostics-collection-notification.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the diagnostics collection notification.":::

8. Respond to the prompt for storage account selection.

   :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/storage-account-selection.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the prompt for the storage account selection.":::

9. Display information that shows that the diagnostics are currently running, and ask the customer to reproduce the VPN issue.

    (Seconds count down on the screen.)

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/diagnostics-running.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows that the diagnostics are currently running.":::

10. Respond to the prompt for an on-premises device log file.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/prompt-device-log-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the prompt for the on-premises device log file.":::

    :::image type="content" source="media/sdp3fdcb6045-5616-45b4-bb68-0bd11081c184-microsoft/upload-device-log-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot to upload the V P N device log file.":::

[!INCLUDE [Azure Help Support](../../includes/azure-help-support.md)]
