---
title: Use the xray feature of TSS to identify known issues
description: Introduces the xray feature of TSS. This feature is used to identify known issues.
ms.date: 11/14/2023
author: Deland-Han
ms.author: delhan
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: itpro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.prod: windows-client
localization_priority: medium
ms.reviewer: tdimli, ronsto, ravikiran.s, gipauli, warrenw
ms.custom: sap:windows-tss, csstroubleshoot
ms.technology: windows-client-troubleshooter
---
# Identify known issues by using the xray feature of TSS

[TSS](https://aka.ms/TssInfo) is a Microsoft PowerShell based toolset that can be used to collect troubleshooting data. The collected data can be analyzed to help identify the root cause of a problem in Windows clients and Server.

xray is a built-in feature of TSS. It aims to automate the detection of known issues and helps resolve them with minimal time and effort. TSS runs the xray feature during data collection. If any known issues are found, it generates report(s) with details of the issue and the possible resolutions. xray also shows them on screen. Report files are in the TSS data set, in the .zip file generated by TSS.

An administrator or a support professional can review the report files to check if a known issue occurs.

## How to download and run the xray feature

Xray can be downloaded as part of the [TSS package](https://aka.ms/getTSS).

When TSS is unzipped, there's an xray directory within TSS directory.

You can also download xray as a stand-alone package on its own by clicking this [link](https://aka.ms/getxray).

Xray runs by default. All you need to do is open the report, read it, and then check if a known issue occurs.

We recommend that you run xray as part of TSS. If you want to run xray directly (separate from TSS), run the following command:

```powershell
.\xray.ps1 -Area *
```

If you want to run it to look for a specific known issue, run the following command:

```powershell
.\xray.ps1 -Diagnostic <diagnostic name>
```

## How to find the xray report

In the .zip file generated by TSS, or within psSDP*.zip file within the TSS*.zip file, you can find:

- xray_ISSUES-FOUND_*.txt (known issue detected)
- xray_INFO_*.txt (a known issue of a lesser impact detected)

> [!NOTE]
> It also generates two log files which should be ignored, they are only to be used by xray team to improve diagnostics:
>
> - xray_log_*.txt
> - xray_report_*.xml

xray is a dynamic tool and has regular weekly releases. Diagnostics are added constantly to detect new issues. Also, diagnostics for obsoleted issues are removed to improve performance and to keep the runtime short.

TSS prompts you to automatically update if needed when you run it. We highly recommend that you keep TSS up to date so that you have the latest TSS and xray updates. If your TSS is outdated, you might miss any recently discovered issues that were added to xray.

## Example scenario: how to use the xray report to resolve an issue

This section introduces an example of an xray report listing a detected known issue on a computer named DESKTOP_1234 and detailing how to resolve it:

- Filename: xray_ISSUES-FOUND_231026-144320_ DESKTOP_1234.txt

```output
xray by tdimli, v1.0.231018.0
Diagnostic check run on 231026-144320 UTC

**
** Issue 1	Found a potential issue (reported by net_smbcli_KB5027830):
**
Workstation Service is not running, this will prevent you from being able to connect to SMB shares.

This is most likely caused by the missing ComputerName value in registry:

HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\ComputerName\ActiveComputerName

Please check this registry key and restore the missing ComnputerName value.

Example:
reg add HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\ComputerName\ActiveComputerName /t REG_SZ /v ComputerName /d YourComputerName /f
```

In this report, the following text shows what the issue is:

```output
Workstation Service is not running, this will prevent you from being able to connect to SMB shares.
```

The following text shows the cause:

```output
This is most likely caused by the missing ComputerName value in registry:
 
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\ComputerName\ActiveComputerName
```

The following text shows the resolution:

```output
Please check this registry key and restore the missing ComnputerName value.

Example:
reg add HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\ComputerName\ActiveComputerName /t REG_SZ /v ComputerName /d YourComputerName /f
```
