---
title: Cluster validation fails with error 80070005
description: Provides a solution to the error 80070005 that occurs when failover cluster validate fails.
ms.date: 09/24/2021
author: Deland-Han
ms.author: delhan
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: itpro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.prod: windows-server
localization_priority: medium
ms.reviewer: kaushika, eldenc
ms.custom: sap:initial-cluster-creation-or-adding-node, csstroubleshoot
ms.technology: windows-server-high-availability
---
# Cluster Validation fails "Validate Cluster Network Configuration" Test with Error 80070005

This article provides a solution to the error 80070005 that occurs when failover cluster validate fails.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Windows Server 2012 R2  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 2012835

## Summary

On a Windows Server 2008 or Windows Server 2008 R2 Failover Cluster, Validate may fail with either of the following errors:

> Validate Cluster Network Configuration  
Validate the cluster networks that would be created for these servers.  
An error occurred while executing the test.  
There was an error initializing the network tests.  
There was an error creating the server-side agent (CPrepSrv).  
Creating an instance of the COM component with CLSID {E1568352-586D-43E4-933F-8E6DC4DE317A} from the IClassFactory failed due to the following error: 80070005.  

OR

> Validate IP Configuration  
Validate that IP addresses are unique and subnets configured correctly.  
An error occurred while executing the test.  
There was an error initializing the network tests.  
There was an error creating the server-side agent (CPrepSrv).  
Creating an instance of the COM component with CLSID {E1568352-586D-43E4-933F-8E6DC4DE317A} from the IClassFactory failed due to the following error: 80070005.  

## Cause

This can be caused by deploying a cloned image of the operating system that was not properly prepared using the System Preparation Tool (Sysprep).

## Resolution

If the base image was not generated by using Sysprep with the /Generalize option, you must rebuild the base image, and then reinstall Windows Server.

## More information

It is not supported to SysPrep servers that have the Failover Clustering feature installed.  The Failover Cluster feature must be installed after the system has been SysPreped and cloned.
