---
title: Bluetooth speakers don't work after update 4505903 is installed on Windows 10, version 1903
description: Describes an issue in which Bluetooth speakers don't work after update 4505903 is installed on Windows 10, version 1903. Provides a workaround.
ms.date: 04/28/2023
author: Deland-Han
ms.author: delhan
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: itpro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
localization_priority: medium
ms.reviewer: kaushika
ms.custom: sap:devices-and-drivers, csstroubleshoot
---
# Bluetooth speakers don't work after update 4505903 is installed in Windows 10, version 1903

This article provides help to solve an issue where Bluetooth speakers don't work after update 4505903 is installed in Windows 10, version 1903.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Windows 10, version 1903  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4518538

## Symptoms

After you install update 4505903 in Windows 10, version 1903 on a computer that has an internal speaker installed, you experience one of the following issues:

- A Bluetooth speaker can't connect to the computer.
- A Bluetooth speaker can connect to the computer. However, the speaker output sounds noisy (bad quality).
- A Bluetooth speaker can connect to the computer. However, the sound is generated by the internal speaker instead of the Bluetooth device.

Additionally, in Device Manager, you notice an entry under the **Sound, video and game controllers** node for **Microsoft Bluetooth A2dp Source** that shows a yellow bang (exclamation mark) icon.

## Resolution

To resolve this issue, install [September 10, 2019—KB4515384 (OS Build 18362.356)](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4515384).

## Workaround

To work around this issue, use the System File Checker tool (SFC.exe) to repair missing or corrupted system files. To do this, follow these steps:

1. Open the command console by using administrative authority.
2. At the command prompt, type the `sfc /scannow` command, and then press Enter.

    > [!NOTE]
    > It may take several minutes for the command operation to be completed.
3. After the process is finished, restart the computer.

For more information, see [Use the System File Checker tool to repair missing or corrupted system files](https://support.microsoft.com/help/929833).

## Data collection

If you need assistance from Microsoft support, we recommend you collect the information by following the steps mentioned in [Gather information by using TSS for deployment-related issues](../windows-troubleshooters/gather-information-using-tss-deployment.md).
