support/mem/configmgr/setup-migrate-backup-recovery/smsdbmon-repeatedly-logs-warnings.md, before:

---
title: Warnings are repeatedly logged in Smsdbmon.log
description: Describes an issue in which Smsdbmon.log continuously reports warnings for multiple triggers such as Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud after updating to Configuration Manager version current branch 1810.
ms.date: 12/05/2023
ms.reviewer: kaushika
---
# Unable to send update on component warnings are repeatedly logged in Smsdbmon.log

This article fixes an issue in which Smsdbmon.log repeatedly reports warnings for multiple triggers, such as **Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud**.

_Original product version:_ &nbsp; Configuration Manager (current branch - version 1810)  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4494362

## Symptoms

After you update to Configuration Manager current branch version 1810, one or more of the following warning messages are repeatedly logged in Smsdbmon.log:

- WARNING: Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud
- WARNING: Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu
- WARNING: Unable to send update on component PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu
- WARNING: Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_upd

Because of the backlog in the `TableChangeNotifications` table generated by these triggers, you may experience issues such as slow content distribution.

## Cause

During the setup of Configuration Manager current branch version 1810, the following triggers are removed:

- SMSDBMON_Collections_L_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_ins
- SMSDBMON_Collection_MemberChg_Notif_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu_ins
- SMSDBMON_PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu_ins
- SMSDBMON_Collections_L_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_upd

In some cases, the SMS_EXCUTIVE (SMSExec.exe) starts during the setup. When this occurs, the SMS DB Monitor (SMSDBMon.exe) re-creates the triggers using the values from the cached registry key located at `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\SMS\Triggers\<SiteCode>`.

To verify that this is the issue, compare the time that the update starts in CMUpdate.log and the time that SMSExec starts in the System event log to determine whether SMSExec starts after the setup runs.

You can also identify when the SMSDBMON component starts and stops by running the following query:

```sql
select * from StatusMessages where Component = 'SMS_DATABASE_NOTIFICATION_MONITOR' and MessageID in (500, 501, 502, 503, 504) order by Time DESC
```

## Resolution

To fix this issue, update to Configuration Manager current branch version [1902](/mem/configmgr/core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-1902).

## Workaround

To work around this issue in Configuration Manager current branch version 1810:

1. Run the registry editor, locate the `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\SMS\Triggers\<SiteCode of the affected site>` registry key, and then determine whether the following registry values exist:

   - `PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud`
   - `PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu`
   - `PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu`

1. If the values exist, delete them.
1. To drop the triggers from the database, run the following SQL statements on the site database that experiences this issue:

    ```sql
    IF OBJECT_ID('tempdb..#temp') IS NOT NULL
         DROP TABLE #temp
     select name
     INTO #temp
     from sys.objects where type = 'TR' and name in
     ('SMSDBMON_Collections_L_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_ins', 'SMSDBMON_Collection_MemberChg_Notif_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu_ins', 'SMSDBMON_PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu_ins','SMSDBMON_Collections_L_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_upd')
     IF Exists (select 1 from #temp)
     BEGIN
     declare @name NVARCHAR(255)
     declare @sql NVARCHAR(255)
     DECLARE DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS CURSOR FOR
         SELECT A.Name FROM #temp AS A
     OPEN DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS;
     FETCH NEXT FROM DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS INTO @name;
     WHILE @@FETCH_STATUS = 0
        BEGIN
             SET @sql = 'DROP TRIGGER ' + @name;
             EXECUTE(@SQL);
          FETCH NEXT FROM DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS INTO @name;
        END;
     CLOSE DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS;
     DEALLOCATE DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS;
     END
    ```

1. To clean the `TableChangeNotifications` table, run the following SQL statements:

    ```sql
    WHILE 1=1
       BEGIN
         DELETE TOP(1000) FROM TableChangeNotifications
         WHERE ((Component = 'PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud' AND TableName = 'Collections_L') OR
                (Component = 'PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu' AND TableName = 'Collection_MemberChg_Notif') OR
                (Component = 'PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu' AND TableName = 'PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify') OR
                (Component = 'PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_upd'  AND TableName = 'Collections_L'))

    IF @@ROWCOUNT <= 0
           BREAK;
     END
    ```

Commit message:

Add ms.custom sap for 153 Intune articles

support/mem/configmgr/setup-migrate-backup-recovery/smsdbmon-repeatedly-logs-warnings.md, after:

---
title: Warnings are repeatedly logged in Smsdbmon.log
description: Describes an issue in which Smsdbmon.log continuously reports warnings for multiple triggers such as Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud after updating to Configuration Manager version current branch 1810.
ms.date: 12/05/2023
ms.reviewer: kaushika
ms.custom: sap:Site Server and Roles\Site and Component Status Monitoring
---
# Unable to send update on component warnings are repeatedly logged in Smsdbmon.log

This article fixes an issue in which Smsdbmon.log repeatedly reports warnings for multiple triggers, such as **Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud**.

_Original product version:_ &nbsp; Configuration Manager (current branch - version 1810)  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4494362

## Symptoms

After you update to Configuration Manager current branch version 1810, one or more of the following warning messages are repeatedly logged in Smsdbmon.log:

- WARNING: Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud
- WARNING: Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu
- WARNING: Unable to send update on component PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu
- WARNING: Unable to send update on component PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_upd

Because of the backlog in the `TableChangeNotifications` table generated by these triggers, you may experience issues such as slow content distribution.

## Cause

During the setup of Configuration Manager current branch version 1810, the following triggers are removed:

- SMSDBMON_Collections_L_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_ins
- SMSDBMON_Collection_MemberChg_Notif_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu_ins
- SMSDBMON_PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu_ins
- SMSDBMON_Collections_L_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_upd

In some cases, the SMS_EXCUTIVE (SMSExec.exe) starts during the setup. When this occurs, the SMS DB Monitor (SMSDBMon.exe) re-creates the triggers using the values from the cached registry key located at `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\SMS\Triggers\<SiteCode>`.

To verify that this is the issue, compare the time that the update starts in CMUpdate.log and the time that SMSExec starts in the System event log to determine whether SMSExec starts after the setup runs.

You can also identify when the SMSDBMON component starts and stops by running the following query:

```sql
select * from StatusMessages where Component = 'SMS_DATABASE_NOTIFICATION_MONITOR' and MessageID in (500, 501, 502, 503, 504) order by Time DESC
```

## Resolution

To fix this issue, update to Configuration Manager current branch version [1902](/mem/configmgr/core/plan-design/changes/whats-new-in-version-1902).

## Workaround

To work around this issue in Configuration Manager current branch version 1810:

1. Run the registry editor, locate the `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\SMS\Triggers\<SiteCode of the affected site>` registry key, and then determine whether the following registry values exist:

   - `PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud`
   - `PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu`
   - `PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu`

1. If the values exist, delete them.
1. To drop the triggers from the database, run the following SQL statements on the site database that experiences this issue:

    ```sql
    IF OBJECT_ID('tempdb..#temp') IS NOT NULL
         DROP TABLE #temp
     select name
     INTO #temp
     from sys.objects where type = 'TR' and name in
     ('SMSDBMON_Collections_L_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_ins', 'SMSDBMON_Collection_MemberChg_Notif_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu_ins', 'SMSDBMON_PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu_ins','SMSDBMON_Collections_L_PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_upd')
     IF Exists (select 1 from #temp)
     BEGIN
     declare @name NVARCHAR(255)
     declare @sql NVARCHAR(255)
     DECLARE DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS CURSOR FOR
         SELECT A.Name FROM #temp AS A
     OPEN DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS;
     FETCH NEXT FROM DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS INTO @name;
     WHILE @@FETCH_STATUS = 0
        BEGIN
             SET @sql = 'DROP TRIGGER ' + @name;
             EXECUTE(@SQL);
          FETCH NEXT FROM DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS INTO @name;
        END;
     CLOSE DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS;
     DEALLOCATE DELETE_OLD_TRIGGERS;
     END
    ```

1. To clean the `TableChangeNotifications` table, run the following SQL statements:

    ```sql
    WHILE 1=1
       BEGIN
         DELETE TOP(1000) FROM TableChangeNotifications
         WHERE ((Component = 'PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud' AND TableName = 'Collections_L') OR
                (Component = 'PolicyTargetEvalNotify_ColMember_iu' AND TableName = 'Collection_MemberChg_Notif') OR
                (Component = 'PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify_iu' AND TableName = 'PolicyAssignmentChg_Notify') OR
                (Component = 'PolicyTargetEvalNotify_iud_upd'  AND TableName = 'Collections_L'))

    IF @@ROWCOUNT <= 0
           BREAK;
     END
    ```
