---
title: Enable or Disable Hyperlink Warning Messages in Office Applications
description: Describes how to enable or disable hyperlink warning messages in Microsoft Office applications.
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.custom:
  - sap:Office Suite (Access, Excel, OneNote, PowerPoint, Publisher, Word, Visio)\Installation, Update, Deployment,  Activation
  - CSSTroubleshoot
  - CI 5936
ms.reviewer: johnlan, of12sstr
search.appverid: 
  - MET150
appliesto: 
  - Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise
  - Office 2024
  - Office 2021
  - Office 2019
  - Office 2016
ms.date: 06/06/2025
---

# Enable or disable hyperlink warning messages in Office applications

In an Office application, if you select a hyperlink or an object that links to an executable file, you receive the following warning message:

> Opening "path/filename".  
> Hyperlinks can be harmful to your computer and data. To protect your computer, click only those hyperlinks from trusted sources. Do you want to continue?

This behavior occurs regardless of your [security level settings](https://support.microsoft.com/office/view-my-privacy-options-in-the-microsoft-office-trust-center-d672876e-20d3-4ad3-a178-343d044e05c8).

Additionally, when you open TIFF images, you receive the following warning message:

> Opening path/filename.  
> Some files can contain viruses or otherwise be harmful to your computer. It is important to be certain that this file is from a trustworthy source. Would you like to open this file?

You receive this warning message even if you have already implemented the registry key that this article describes. This warning message is generated by the HLINK.dll file when link navigation is handled. You can differentiate the Office hyperlink message from the HLINK message by looking for quotation marks around the file path in the message. Only the Office message contains those quotation marks. Office tries to determine whether the file type itself is unsafe by checking the extension, the progid, the class ID, and the MIME type of the document.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The following sections contain information about how to modify the registry. However, serious problems might occur if you modify the registry incorrectly. Therefore, make sure that you follow these steps carefully. For added protection, [back up the registry](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/how-to-back-up-and-restore-the-registry-in-windows-855140ad-e318-2a13-2829-d428a2ab0692) before you modify it. Then, you can restore the registry if a problem occurs.

## Globally enable or disable hyperlink warnings

To enable or disable hyperlink warnings when an `https://`, `notes://`, or `ftp://` address is used, follow these steps:

1. Press the Windows key+R to open the **Run** window, enter *regedit*, and then press Enter.
1. Locate the following registry subkey:

   `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Common\Security`

   If the subkey doesn't exist, create the subkey.
1. Right-click the `Security` subkey, and select **New** > **DWORD (32-bit) Value**.
1. Enter `DisableHyperlinkWarning` as the entry name.
1. Double-click the `DisableHyperlinkWarning` entry, select **Decimal**, enter one of the following values in the **Value data** field, and then select **OK**:

    - **0**: Enables the hyperlink warning message
    - **1**: Disables the hyperlink warning message
1. Exit Registry Editor.

## Disable hyperlink warnings for a specific protocol

Follow these steps:

1. Press the Windows key+R to open the **Run** window, type *regedit*, and then press Enter.
1. Locate the following registry subkey:

   `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Common\Security\Trusted Protocols\All Applications`
1. Right-click the `All Applications` subkey, and select **New** > **Key**.
1. Enter the name of the protocol that you want to exclude as the name of the key. For example, to disable the display of a security warning for the `Notes:` protocol, enter *`Notes:`*.
1. Exit Registry Editor.

## You still receive a warning message

If you still receive a warning message after you disable warning messages through the registry, try the following method to disable the warning.

> [!NOTE]
> After you follow these steps, you'll still receive the warning message if you open files in Protected View.

1. Press the Windows key+R to open the **Run** window, type *regedit*, and then press Enter.
1. Locate the following registry subkey:

   `HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\<CLSID>`

   **Note**: \<CLSID\> is a globally unique identifier that identifies a COM class object. For example, if the file name extension is WMV, select `HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\WMVFile`.
1. Under this subkey, right-click the **EditFlags** entry, and then select **Rename**.
1. Type *OldEditFlags*, and press Enter.
1. Right-click an empty space in the right pane, and select **New** > **DWORD (32-bit) Value**.
1. Enter *EditFlags* as the entry name.
1. Double-click the `EditFlags` entry, select **Hexadecimal**, enter *10000* in the **Value data** field, and then select **OK**.
1. Exit Registry Editor.

To re-enable the warning message, follow these steps:

1. Press the Windows key+R to open the **Run** window, type *regedit*, and then press Enter.
1. Locate the following registry subkey:

   `HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\<CLSID>`
1. Double-click the `EditFlags` entry, enter *0* in the **Value data** field, and then select **OK**.
1. Exit Registry Editor.
