---
title: Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Microsoft Software Update Services v 5.2.2003.0
description: Provides some steps for installing the Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Microsoft Software Update Services
ms.date: 04/28/2023
author: Deland-Han
ms.author: delhan
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: itpro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
localization_priority: medium
ms.reviewer: kaushika, v-dgit
ms.custom: sap:failure-to-install-windows-updates, csstroubleshoot
---
# Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Microsoft Software Update Services v 5.2.2003.0  

This article provides some steps for installing the Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Microsoft Software Update Services.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows 10 - all editions  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 823398

## Summary

This article describes how to install the Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Microsoft Software Update Services. The Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool (also known as MPS_REPORTS) is a compressed software package that contains scripts and utilities that you can use to capture critical system, diagnostic, and configuration information about your computer. This tool includes the Software Update Services edition that is described in this article and other editions that are designed for specific support issues.

## More information

You can use the Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Software Update Services to gather detailed information about the current configuration of a computer. The information you collect helps a Microsoft Support Professional isolate the problem.

The Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Software Update Services works on Windows Server 2003, Windows XP, Windows 2000, and Windows NT 4.0. When the tool runs, it detects the Windows operating system that is installed to determine which commands it will use to collect information. The reporting tool does not change any registry entries and does not modify the operating system.

### How to Use the Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Software Update Services

To use the Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool for Software Update Services, follow these steps:

1. Download Mpsrpt_sus.exe.
2. Double-click the copy of Mpsrpt_sus.exe that you saved to your computer, and then click **Yes** to accept the End User License Agreement (EULA).

    > [!NOTE]
    > Be patient while the tool collects information. The tool may stop responding for five to fifteen minutes.
3. The tool creates a .cab file named **Computer_name** _MPSReports_ **Date**.cab in the **System_root**\\MPSReports\\Msus\\Cab folder. The .cab file contains the reports that are generated by the Microsoft Product Support Reporting Tool. If the .cab file is not created, copy all the files in the **System_root**\\MPSReports\\Msus folder to a compressed (zipped) file.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The **System_root** folder is the folder where you installed the operating system. Typically, this folder is the C:\\Winnt folder or the C:\\Windows folder.
4. Send the .cab file or compressed (zipped) file to your Microsoft Support Professional using the e-mail address the Microsoft Support Professional provides.

## Data collection

If you need assistance from Microsoft support, we recommend you collect the information by following the steps mentioned in [Gather information by using TSS for deployment-related issues](../../windows-client/windows-troubleshooters/gather-information-using-tss-deployment.md).
