---
title: Notifications don't show in the action or notification center
description: Provides basic guidelines to resolve the issue in which notifications don't show in the action or notification center by checking if the Quiet Hours (also known as focus assist) option is enabled.
ms.date: 01/15/2025
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: itpro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.reviewer: kaushika, warrenw, rafern, v-lianna
ms.custom: sap:Windows Desktop and Shell Experience\Desktop (Shell, Explorer.exe init, themes, colors, icons, recycle bin), csstroubleshoot
---
# Notifications don't show in the action or notification center

This article provides basic guidelines to resolve an issue where notifications don't show in the [action or notification center](https://support.microsoft.com/windows/change-notification-and-quick-settings-in-windows-ddcbbcd4-0a02-f6e4-fe14-6766d850f294) by checking if the "[Quiet Hours](https://support.microsoft.com/windows/turn-off-notifications-in-windows-during-certain-times-81ed1b25-809b-741d-549c-7696474d15d3)" (also known as focus assist) option is enabled.

You experience the issue of notifications not arriving as expected.

> [!NOTE]
> Notifications are pop-up messages that inform you about events, updates, or alerts. These notifications are generated by the Windows Push Notification Service (WNS), which orchestrates the entire notification process. Despite the robust notification system, there can be multiple reasons why notifications don't arrive as expected. One common cause is that the "Quiet Hours" option is enabled.

## Quiet hours

*Quiet hours* are designated periods during which notifications and alerts are silenced, allowing users to work without interruptions.

When the "Quiet Hours" option is enabled, your computer won't send app notifications, calendar events, messages, or email alerts. You won't hear any notification sounds, and your screen won't light up for incoming notifications.

Despite quiet hours being active, certain notifications are still allowed:

- Calls from Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) apps

    If you receive calls from apps capable of making VoIP calls, those notifications will come through.

- Alarms

    Alarms set on your device will still function during quiet hours.

## Check if the "Quiet Hours" option is enabled

# [Windows 10](#tab/Windows-10)

1. Select **Start** > **Settings** > **System** (Windows logo key+<kbd>I</kbd>).
2. On the left, select **Focus assist**.
3. Check if one of the following options is enabled:

    - **Priority only**

        This option shows priority notifications.
    - **Alarms only**

        This option displays alarms.
    - **Automatic rules**

        You can set the "Quiet Hours" option to activate automatically at specific times or under specific conditions. For example, you can set this option to activate during work hours or when you're duplicating your display, playing a game, or using an app in full screen mode. The "Quiet Hours" option is also enabled for the first hour after an operating system upgrade.

# [Windows 11](#tab/Windows-11)

1. Select **Start** > **Settings** > **System** > **Notifications**.
2. Check if the **Do not disturb toggle** is turned on.

---

## Change "Quiet Hours" using the Local Group Policy Editor

If you're using Windows 10 Pro or Windows 10 Enterprise, you can change the "Quiet Hours" settings using the Local Group Policy Editor:

1. Select **Start**, type *gpedit.msc*, and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
2. Navigate to **User Configuration** > **Administrative Templates** > **Start Menu and Taskbar** > **Notifications**.
3. Adjust the settings for **Set the time Quiet Hours begins each day** and **Set the time Quiet Hours ends each day**.

To verify the settings, run the following command from an elevated command prompt and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>:

```console
gpresult /h C:\temp\output.html
```

> [!NOTE]
> Replace `C:\temp\output.html` with the desired file path where you want to save the results.

The command generates an HTML file containing detailed information about the applied Group Policy settings. Open the HTML file using a web browser or text editor and look for any policies with the words "Quiet Hours."

## Check if the "Quiet Hours" policy is enabled by using Intune

1. On your managed device, go to **Settings** > **Accounts** > **Access work or school**.
2. Select your work or school account, and then select **Info**.
3. At the bottom of the **Settings** page, select **Create report**.
4. A window opens, showing the path to the log files. Select **Export**.
5. In **File Explorer**, navigate to *C:\\Users\\Public\\Documents\\MDMDiagnostics* to find the report.
6. Open the report, search for "Quiet Hours," and check if the policy is enabled.
