---
title: Windows stop error - Hardware malfunction
description: This article provides steps to resolve issues where Windows Server 2008 virtual machines crash with an error message that states that there was a hardware malfunction.
services: virtual-machines
documentationcenter: ''
author: mibufo
tags: azure-resource-manager
ms.service: virtual-machines
ms.collection: windows
ms.workload: infrastructure-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.date: 06/13/2024
ms.custom: sap:My VM is not booting
---

# Windows stop error - Hardware malfunction

This article provides steps to resolve issues where Windows Server 2008 virtual machines crash with an error message that states that there was a hardware malfunction.

## Symptoms

When you use [Boot diagnostics](./boot-diagnostics.md) to view the screenshot of the VM, you'll see that the screenshot displays a blue screen with the message:

**\*\*\* Hardware Malfunction**

**Call your vendor for support**

**\*\*\* The system has halted \*\*\***

#### Blue screen

:::image type="content" source="media/windows-stop-error-hardware-malfunction/hardware-malfunction-screen.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows a blue hardware malfunction crash screen." border="false":::

#### Serial console

:::image type="content" source="media/windows-stop-error-hardware-malfunction/hardware-malfunction-serial-console.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the message Hardware Malfunction on the Serial Console feature if Serial Console has been enabled.":::

## Cause

This screen will appear when the Guest OS wasn't set up correctly and a Non-Maskable Interrupt (NMI) was sent. The error message indicates that a kernel-mode program generated an exception, which the handler didn't catch. You can identify which exception was generated by collecting a memory dump.

## Solution

### Process Overview

> [!TIP]
> If you have a recent backup of the VM, you may try [restoring the VM from the backup](/azure/backup/backup-azure-arm-restore-vms) to fix the boot problem.

1. Set up the Non-Maskable Interrupt (NMI) Registry Key
2. Create and Access a Repair VM
3. Enable Serial Console and Memory Dump Collection
4. Rebuild the VM

### Set up the Non-Maskable Interrupt (NMI) registry key

1. Using the Azure portal, restart the VM so that the Guest OS boots normally.
2. Once some access to the VM has been restored, open an elevated command prompt (run as administrator).
3. Set up the NMI registry key with the following command:

    ```console
    REG ADD "HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\CrashControl" /v NMICrashDump /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    ```

    [View further information about the REG ADD command](/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/reg-add)
4. *(Optional)* Setup memory dump collection:

    ```console
    REG ADD "HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\CrashControl" /v CrashDumpEnabled /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f  
    REG ADD "HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "%SystemRoot%\MEMORY.DMP" /f 

    ```

5. *(Optional)* Setup serial console access:

    ```console
    BCDEDIT /ems {current} on, or bcdedit /ems '{current}' on if you are using PowerShell
    BCDEDIT /emssettings EMSPORT:1 EMSBAUDRATE:115200 
    ```

    [View further information about the BCDEDIT command](/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/bcdedit)
6. Restart the VM with the following command:

    ```console
    SHUTDOWN /r /t 0 /f 
    ```

    [View further information about the SHUTDOWN command](/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/shutdown)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The issue should now be fixed!

> [!NOTE]
> After restarting, test your VM to make sure it is functioning like normal. If you are still experiencing issues, then you can continue to the next section for further instructions.

> [!TIP]
> It is recommended to setup the non-maskable interrupt (NMI) registry key in the section above, however if your VM didn't boot normally afterwards then intended changes to the Guest OS registry may not have taken place. If that's the case, you can follow the directions below to manually add the registry settings instead.

### Create and access a repair VM

1. Use steps 1-3 of the [VM Repair Commands](./repair-windows-vm-using-azure-virtual-machine-repair-commands.md) to prepare a Repair VM.
2. Connect to the Repair VM using Remote Desktop Connection.

### Enable serial console and memory dump collection

Before rebuilding the VM, it is recommended to enable memory dump collection and Serial Console. To do this, follow these steps:

[!INCLUDE [Enable Serial Console and Memory Dump Collection](../../../includes/azure/enable-serial-console-memory-dump-collection.md)]

### Rebuild the virtual machine

* Use [step 5 of the VM Repair Commands](./repair-windows-vm-using-azure-virtual-machine-repair-commands.md#repair-process-example) to rebuild the VM.

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Troubleshoot Azure Virtual Machine Boot Errors](./boot-error-troubleshoot.md)

[!INCLUDE [Azure Help Support](../../../includes/azure-help-support.md)]
