---
title: Microsoft Dynamics CRM IIS Memory Dump diagnostic
description: Describes information that is collected from a computer when you run the Memory Dump diagnostic in Microsoft Dynamics CRM.
ms.reviewer: 
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 
---
# [SDP 3][4d932503-ca3c-469c-9719-1ca0964a0e03] Microsoft Dynamics CRM IIS Memory Dump diagnostic

The Microsoft Dynamics CRM IIS Memory Dump diagnostic collects crash or hang dump files for the CRMAppPool service account that is configured on the server that is running Microsoft Dynamics CRM and IIS. This article contains information about the data that is collected by the Microsoft Dynamics CRM IIS Memory Dump diagnostic.

_Applies to:_ &nbsp; Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2011  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 2606908

> [!NOTE]
> The diagnostic that is described in this article can be used on the following versions of Windows:
>
> - Windows 7
> - Windows 2008 R2

## Information that is collected

The following data may be collected by the CRM IIS Memory Dump diagnostic when the diagnostic is run by the Microsoft Support Diagnostic Tool.

> [!NOTE]
>
> - All file names in the data collection are prefaced with the name of the computer on which the Microsoft Support Diagnostic Tool is run.
> - The diagnostic uses the ProcDump tool to generate one or more .dmp files when the selected application either stops responding or closes unexpectedly. For more information about the ProcDump tool, see [ProcDump v10.0](/sysinternals/downloads/procdump).

## Unresponsive application dump data

The following files are generated and collected when you select the **The application has become unresponsive** option when you are prompted by the diagnostic.

In this scenario, up to three .dmp files are generated, 10 seconds apart, to capture memory details about the unresponsive state of the selected application. Because these files are typically very large, the diagnostic may take several minutes to finish.

|Description|File name|
|---|---|
|The text file that lists the compressed (.zip) files that are generated by the diagnostic. Provides the .zip file names and parent folder location| *Computer_Name*_DumpFile_Information.txt|
|The .zip file that contains a compressed .dmp file| *Computer_Name*_w3wp.zip|
|The text file that contains output information for the ProcDump tool. For example, the file lists the location and names of the uncompressed .dmp files.| *Computer_Name*_w3wp.out|

## Crash dump data

The following files are generated and collected when you select the **The application is crashing or terminating unexpectedly** option when you are prompted by the diagnostic. For crash scenarios, the diagnostic will wait for any second-chance exceptions to occur and then create a .dmp file for that process.

|Description|File name|
|---|---|
|The text file that contains the name of the compressed (.zip) file that is generated by the diagnostic. Provides the .zip file name and parent location.| *Computer_Name*_DumpFile_Information.txt|
|The .zip file that contains a compressed .dmp file| *Computer_Name*_w3wp.zip|
|The text file that contains output information from the ProcDump tool. For example, the file lists the location and name of the uncompressed .dmp files.| *Computer_Name*_w3wp.out|
