---
title: Enable diagnostic tracing for MS DTC
description: This article describes how to enable diagnostic tracing for MS DTC on a Windows 10 computer.
ms.date: 12/19/2023
ms.reviewer: johngil
ms.custom: sap:Distributed Transactions\DTC programming and runtime
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Enable diagnostic tracing for MS DTC on a Windows 10 computer

This article discusses how to enable diagnostic tracing for the Microsoft Distributed Transaction Coordinator (MS DTC) on a Windows 10 computer.

_Original product version:_ &nbsp; Windows 10  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 926099

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This article contains information about how to modify the registry. Make sure that you back up the registry before you modify it. Make sure that you know how to restore the registry if a problem occurs. For more information about how to back up, restore, and modify the registry, see [Windows registry information for advanced users](https://support.microsoft.com/help/256986).

## Types of tracing facilities

- Transaction manager tracing

    Transaction manager (TM) tracing tracks transaction state changes. It's generated by the MS DTC transaction manager. The output is in binary format, and the output must be formatted. The transaction manager is part of the MS DTC service.

- Communication manager error tracing

    Communication manager (CM) error tracing tracks any process that loads the _Msdtcprx.dll_ file and that uses the remote procedure call (RPC) interface of MS DTC to communicate with other MS DTC-related processes. The output is in text format. The **0x8004d00a** error is a typical error for which communication manager error tracing may be useful.

> [!NOTE]
> Transaction manager tracing and communication manager error tracing are independent processes. You can independently enable transaction manager tracing and communication manager error tracing. Or, you can independently disable them.

## Enable transaction manager tracing

You can use the Component Services Microsoft Management Console (MMC) snap-in to enable transaction manager tracing. To do this, follow these steps:

1. Select **Start**, select **All Programs**, select **Accessories**, and then select **Run**.
2. Type _comexp.msc_, and then select **OK**.
3. Expand **Component Services**, expand **Computers**, expand **My Computer**, expand **Distributed Transaction Manager**, right-click **Local DTC**, and then select **Properties**.
4. Select the **Tracing** tab.
5. On the **Tracing** tab, you can modify the following TM tracing options:

    - **Trace Output**
        - **Trace Transactions**
          - **Trace All Transactions**
          - **Trace Aborted Transactions**
          - **Trace Long-Lived Transactions**

When you change the TM tracing configuration, the MS DTC service detects the changes. However, you don't have to recycle the process. For example, when you change the transactions that are traced or the location of the trace file, the MS DTC service detects the change in the registry. You don't have to restart the MS DTC service.

## New MS DTC tracing system in Windows

In Windows, MS DTC has a new and extensive tracing system. The new system has the following design goals:

- Only a single line of code is required to add a formatted trace.
- The trace is readable by humans on production computers without a network.
- Output options are flexible.
- The trace is fast.
- You don't have to restart the computer to change the options.

Additionally, in Windows 10 and Windows Server Technical Preview, the tracing log file name includes the name of the process that invoked the tracing log. This is controlled by the Output registry key.

## Configure tracing

> [!WARNING]
> Serious problems might occur if you modify the registry incorrectly by using Registry Editor or by using another method. These problems might require that you reinstall the operating system. Microsoft can't guarantee that these problems can be solved. Modify the registry at your own risk.

Trace configuration is located on the local node, in a registry key that is named `Tracing` under the MS DTC registry key. The `Tracing` registry key includes connection manager tracing. Previously, you used the `TraceCMErr` registry key to configure connection manager tracing. The `Tracing` registry key contains the following two sub keys:

- `Sources`: This sub key configures the kind of tracing.
- `Output`: This sub key configures where the tracing output is sent.

> [!NOTE]
> Make sure that the process can access the `Tracing` registry key. By default, the Windows configuration doesn't create this key and doesn't grant permissions to this key. You can use Registry Editor to configure tracing functionality.

To create tracing functionality registry entries, follow these steps:

1. Select **Start** > **All Programs** > **Accessories** > **Run**, type _regedit_, and then select **OK**.
2. Locate and then select one of the following sub keys:

    - `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\MSDTC\Tracing\Sources`
    - `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\MSDTC\Tracing\Output`

3. On the **Edit** menu, select **New**, and then select the data type of the entry. For example, select **DWORD (32-bit) Value**.
4. Type the name of the desired source, and then press ENTER. For more information about the source names, see the table in the **Configure sources** section.
5. Right-click the new registry entry, select **Modify**, type the value that you want in the **Value data** box, and then select **OK**.
6. On the **File** menu, select **Exit**.

### Configure sources

The `Sources` registry key contains a set of DWORD registry values that are listed in the following table.

|Name|Description|
|---|---|
|TRACE_MISC|Traces that can't be categorized into the other categories|
|TRACE_CM|Traces in the connection manager|
|TRACE_TRACE|The trace infrastructure itself|
|TRACE_SVC|Traces service and .exe file startup|
|TRACE_GATEWAY|Gateway source|
|TRACE_UI|Traces the user interface|
|TRACE_CONTACT|Traces the contact pool and contacts|
|TRACE_UTIL|Traces utility routines that are called from multiple locations|
|TRACE_CLUSTER|Traces the cluster-specific (utility) code|
|TRACE_RESOURCE|Traces the cluster resource-specific code|
|TRACE_TIP|Transaction Internet Protocol (TIP) tracing source|
|TRACE_XA|XA Transaction Manager (XATM) tracing source|
|TRACE_LOG|Log tracing|
|TRACE_MTXOCI|MTS/OCI layer (Mtxoci.dll) tracing source|
|TRACE_ETWTRACE|Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) tracing source|
|TRACE_PROXY|Traces that are generated in the MSDTC proxy DLL|
|TRACE_KTMRM|Tracing for integration with Kernel Transaction Manager|
|TRACE_VSSBACKUP|Tracing for integration with the Microsoft Visual SourceSafe backup and restore mechanism|
|TRACE_PERFMON|Tracing with support for performance counters|
  
The DWORD value should be a number from 0 to 255. The DWORD value indicates the level of tracing that occurs. The following table lists possible DWORD values.

|Value|Description|
|---|---|
|0|const BYTE TRACE_OFF|
|1|const BYTE TRACE_ERROR|
|2|const BYTE TRACE_WARNING|
|3|const BYTE TRACE_INFO|
|4|const BYTE TRACE_VERBOSE|
|5|const BYTE TRACE_VERY_VERBOSE|
|6|const BYTE TRACE_INOUT|
|0xF0|const BYTE TRACE_OBSCURE|
|0xFF|const BYTE TRACE_EVERYTHING|
  
> [!NOTE]
> Higher values automatically include lower values. Therefore, when you enable the `TRACE_INFO` level, the `TRACE_ERROR` level is also enabled. Very few sources use any tracing that is higher than the `TRACE_VERBOSE` level.

## Configure trace output

> [!WARNING]
> Serious problems might occur if you modify the registry incorrectly by using Registry Editor or by using another method. These problems might require that you reinstall the operating system. Microsoft can't guarantee that these problems can be solved. Modify the registry at your own risk.

The `Output` registry key contains a set of values that control where trace output is sent. These values are as follows:

- The `TraceFilePath` (REG_SZ) value is the root folder in which trace files should be stored. Tracing is written to a file in a folder that is named _msdtc-X.log_. In this folder name, _X_ represents the decimal PID of the process that creates the file. Make sure that all the processes of interest can access the configured folder. Otherwise, trace information will be lost. If this value isn't set, traces aren't sent to a file.

- The `ImageNameInTraceFileNameEnabled` (REG_DWORD) value determines whether the name of the tracing log file that's generated includes the image file name of the process that invoked the tracing log. If this is set to a non-zero value, the image file name of the process will be included in the tracing log file that's generated. If this value is set to zero, the image file name of the process will not be included in the tracing log file that's generated. By default, the value is set to zero (0). The following is an example of a trace file name where the log file that's generated contains the process:  
    _MSDTC-msdtc.exe-3552.log_ or _MSDTC-svchost.exe - 3556.log_

- The `MemoryBufferSize` (REG_DWORD) value is the size of the circular buffer in which trace messages are stored. If this value is set to 0, memory tracing is disabled. By default, this value is 10 MB. You may have to increase this value if you enable verbose tracing.

- The `DebugOutEnabled` (REG_DWORD) value enables or disables output to the debugger. If the value is nonzero, the output is enabled. By default, this `Output` registry key is disabled. When you change the connection manager error-tracing configuration, the changes take effect when a process that loads the _Msdtcprx.dll_ file is recycled. For example, the changes to the connection manager error-tracing configuration take effect when the MS DTC service process is recycled.

Alternatively, you can create a .reg file, and then you can use Registry Editor to import the file. To do this, follow these steps:

1. Create a new .reg file that contains the following code example:

    ```console
    Windows Registry Editor Version 5.00
    [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\MSDTC\Tracing]
    [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\MSDTC\Tracing\Output]
    "DebugOutEnabled"=dword:00000000
    "TraceFilePath"=""
    "MemoryBufferSize"=dword:0000000a
    "ImageNameInTraceFileNameEnabled"=dword:00000001
    [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\MSDTC\Tracing\Sources]
    "TRACE_MISC"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_CM"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_TRACE"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_SVC"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_GATEWAY"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_UI"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_CONTACT"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_UTIL"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_CLUSTER"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_RESOURCE"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_TIP"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_XA"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_LOG"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_MTXOCI"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_ETWTRACE"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_PROXY"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_KTMRM"=dword:00000000
    "TRACE_VSSBACKUP"=dword:00000000
    ```

2. Select **Start** > **All Programs** > **Accessories** > **Run**, type _regedit_, and then click **OK**.
3. On the **File** menu, select **Import**.
4. Locate the file that you created in step 1, and then select **Open**. The **Registry Editor** dialog box appears.
5. Select **OK**.
6. On the **File** menu, select **Exit**.

## Performance effect

By default, tracing functionality is disabled in Windows. Therefore, no performance effect exists on a regular installation.

Don't enable tracing functionality on production computers unless a Microsoft Customer Support Professional indicates that the tracing information is required to diagnose a problem. Tracing may affect computer performance. First you must find the problem, and you must resolve it. Then, immediately disable the tracing functionality.

## Cluster configuration

For cluster installations, make sure that all registry entries on all the nodes contain these registry entries. For any node that doesn't have these registry entries, the cluster code ignores the registry entries in the shared registry because the registry entries don't exist in the local computer registry.
