---
title: Microsoft 365 Apps activation error codes 0xCAA70007 and 0xCAA80000
description: Troubleshooting steps for activation codes 0xCAA70007 and 0xCAA80000.
author: Cloud-Writer
ms.reviewer: vikkarti
ms.author: meerak
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.custom: 
  - sap:Office Suite (Access, Excel, OneNote, PowerPoint, Publisher, Word, Visio)\Installation, Update, Deployment,  Activation
  - Activation\Errors\Unable to connect
  - CSSTroubleshoot
  - CI 157599
  - CI 159118
search.appverid: 
  - MET150
appliesto: 
  - Microsoft 365
ms.date: 02/11/2025
---

# Microsoft 365 Apps activation error codes 0xCAA70007 and 0xCAA80000

When you try to activate Microsoft 365 Apps, you might encounter the error "We are unable to connect right now", followed by one of the following error codes:

- `0xCAA70007`

- `0XCAA80000`

Try the following troubleshooting methods to solve the problem.

**Note** Some of these troubleshooting methods can only be performed by a Microsoft 365 admin. If you aren’t an admin, see [How do I find my Microsoft 365 admin?](https://support.microsoft.com/office/how-do-i-find-my-microsoft-365-admin-59b8e361-dbb6-407f-8ac3-a30889e7b99b)
<br/><br/>

<details>
<summary><b>Activating Microsoft 365 on Windows 8.1 or earlier</b></summary>

To activate Microsoft 365 Apps, TLS 1.2 must be enabled on the operating system. Some older operating systems, such as Windows 7 SP1, Windows Server 2008 R2, and Windows Server 2012, require an update to enable TLS 1.2 by default.

**Important** Running Microsoft 365 Apps on these older operating systems isn't supported. For more information, see [End of support resources for Office](/deployoffice/endofsupport/resources).

1. If you are running Windows 7 or Windows Server 2008, make sure that [Service Pack 1]( https://support.microsoft.com/topic/information-about-service-pack-1-for-windows-7-and-for-windows-server-2008-r2-df044624-55b8-3a97-de80-5d99cb689063) is installed.
1. Enable TLS 1.2 as the default protocol by using [this easy fix]( https://download.microsoft.com/download/0/6/5/0658B1A7-6D2E-474F-BC2C-D69E5B9E9A68/MicrosoftEasyFix51044.msi), and then restart the device.
1. From Start, select **Control Panel** > **Internet options** > **Advanced settings**.
1. If **TLS 1.2** isn’t checked, check it, then select **Apply** and **OK**.
1. Restart the device, and then try activating Microsoft 365 again.
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Update Windows</b></summary>

1. From Start, type check for updates, and select **Check for updates** from the search results.
1. Select **Check for updates**.
1. Download and install available updates.
1. Restart the device and try to activate Microsoft 365 again.
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Update Microsoft 365</b></summary>

It's recommended that Microsoft 365 be configured to install updates automatically. To check for updates, open an Office app (such as Word), select **File**, and then select **Account**.
Select **Update options**, and then select **Update now**.
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Reset Microsoft 365 activation state</b></summary>

See [Reset activation state for Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise](/office/troubleshoot/activation/reset-office-365-proplus-activation-state).
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Check whether you're behind a proxy server</b></summary>

Are you behind a proxy server? If you're not sure, ask your administrator. If so, you (or your administrator) might have to change the proxy settings for Windows HTTP clients. To do this, follow these steps:
  
1. Open a Command Prompt window as an administrator. From Start, type *cmd.exe* in the search box, right-click **Command Prompt** in the list, and then select **Run as administrator**.
1. Type the following command, and then press Enter:
`netsh winhttp set proxy < Address of proxy server >`
  
You need to allow the URLs and IP addresses in [this list](/microsoft-365/enterprise/urls-and-ip-address-ranges?view=o365-worldwide&preserve-view=true#microsoft-365-common-and-office-online).
  
You can also allow Microsoft 365 to bypass the proxy server by creating a PAC file. For more information about creating a PAC file, see [Managing Microsoft 365 endpoints](/microsoft-365/enterprise/managing-office-365-endpoints).
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Check whether you're behind a firewall</b></summary>

Are you behind a firewall? If you're not sure, ask your administrator. If you're behind a firewall, it might have to be configured to enable access to the following:

- `officecdn.microsoft.com`
- `ols.officeapps.live.com/olsc`
- `activation.sls.microsoft.com`
- `odc.officeapps.live.com`
- `crl.microsoft.com/pki/crl/products/MicrosoftProductSecureServer.crl`
- `crl.microsoft.com/pki/crl/products/MicrosoftRootAuthority.crl`
- `crl.microsoft.com/pki/crl/products/MicrosoftProductSecureCommunicationsPCA.crl`
- `www.microsoft.com/pki/crl/products/MicrosoftProductSecureCommunicationsPCA.crl`
- `go.microsoft.com`
- `Office15client.microsoft.com`
- `login.windows.net`
- `login.microsoft.com`
- `login.microsoftonline.com`
- `crl.microsoft.com`
- `cdn.odc.officeapps.live.com`
- `ajax.aspnetcdn.com`
- `officeclient.microsoft.com`
- `aadcdn.msauth.net`
- `aadcdn.msauthimages.net`
- `enterpriseregistration.windows.net`
  
Each firewall will have a different method to enable access to these URIs. Check your software's documentation for instructions or ask your administrator to do this for you.
  
For more information about Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise URLs and IP addresses, see the following Microsoft article: [Microsoft 365 URLs and IP address ranges](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh373144.aspx).
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Reset Winsock</b></summary>

1. Open a Command Prompt window as an administrator. From Start, type *cmd.exe* in the search box, right-click **Command Prompt** in the list, and then select **Run as administrator**.
1. Type the following command, and then press Enter:
`netsh int ip reset`
1. Type the following command, and then press Enter:
`netsh winsock reset`
1. Restart the device.
1. Try to activate Microsoft 365 again.
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Disable IPv6</b></summary>

1. Right-click the network icon in the System Tray.
1. Select **Open Network & Internet Settings**.
1. Select **Change adapter options**.
1. Right-click your network connection, and then select **Properties**.
1. Uncheck **Internet Protocol version 6**.
1. Try to activate Microsoft 365 again.
1. Re-enable IPv6.
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Make sure required services are running</b></summary>

1. From Start, type `services.msc`, and then select the **Services** app.
1. Make sure that the following services are all running:
    - Network Connected Devices Auto-Setup
    - Network List Service
    - Network Location Awareness
    - Windows Event Log
1. If any of these services is not running, right-click the service and select **Start**.
1. If you have a problem starting the service, run the System File Checker using the following steps:
    - From Start, type **cmd**. Right-click **Command Prompt** in the search results and select **Run as administrator**.
    - At the command prompt, type `sfc /scannow`
    - When the scan completes, restart the device.
1. When all the services listed under step 2 are running, try activating Microsoft 365 again.
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Remove Office credentials</b></summary>

1. From Start, type credential manager, and then select **Credential Manager** from the search results.
1. Select **Windows credentials**.
1. If there are any credentials for **MicrosoftOffice16**, select the arrow next to them and then select **Remove**.
1. Close Credential Manager.
1. From Start, select **Settings** (the gear icon) > **Accounts** > **Access work or school**.
1. If the account you use to sign in to office.com is listed there, but it isn’t the account you use to sign in to Windows, select it, and then select **Disconnect**.
1. Restart the device and try to activate Microsoft 365 again.
<br/><br/>
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Change proxy, firewall, or Group Policy settings</b></summary>

An IT administrator might be able to solve this problem.

First check your firewall or proxy setting. Add an explicit "allow" rule that contains "MSOIDCRL" in your firewall or proxy for agents. For example, set up the rules to first allow MSOIDCRL and to then deny Internet Explorer 6. For more information about how to configure firewall rules, see your firewall documentation.

If the issue persists, check if NCSI active probe is disabled. In this case, enable NCSI active probe by using the registry or Group Policy Objects (GPOs).

To use the registry to enable NCSI active probe, configure one of the following registry keys:

**Important**

Serious problems might occur if you modify the registry incorrectly. Before you modify it, [back up the registry for restoration](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/how-to-back-up-and-restore-the-registry-in-windows-855140ad-e318-2a13-2829-d428a2ab0692) in case problems occur.

`HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NlaSvc\Parameters\Internet\EnableActiveProbing`

- Type: DWORD
- Value: Decimal 1

`HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\NetworkConnectivityStatusIndicator\NoActiveProbe`

- Type: DWORD
- Value: Decimal 0

To use Group Policy to enable NCSI active probe, configure the following GPO:

**Computer Configuration\Administrative Templates\System\Internet Communication Management\Internet Communication settings\Turn off Windows Network Connectivity Status**<br/>
**Indicator active tests**<br/>
**Value: Disabled**
<br/><br/>
</details>

## Additional troubleshooting

If the above troubleshooting methods don't solve the problem, try the troubleshooting methods in the following articles:

- [Connection issues in sign-in after update to Office 2016 build 16.0.7967 on Windows 10](/microsoft-365/troubleshoot/authentication/connection-issue-when-sign-in-office-2016)

- [Microsoft 365 activation sign in errors](./sign-in-issues.md)
