---
title: Don't manually resolve alerts raised by monitors
description: Describes why alerts that are generated by the monitors should not be manually resolved in Operations Manager.
ms.date: 04/15/2024
ms.reviewer: jchornbe
---
# Alerts raised by monitors should not be manually resolved in Operations Manager

In System Center Operations Manager, alerts can be raised by the monitors. Alerts that are raised by the monitors are typically the result of a state change. These alerts are displayed in the Operations console similar to the alerts that are raised by rules. However, these alerts should not be manually resolved.

_Original product version:_ &nbsp; System Center 2016 Operations Manager, System Center 2012 R2 Operations Manager, Microsoft System Center 2012 Operations Manager  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 979388

Alerts that are raised by the monitors are related to a state change. These alerts should be resolved by the monitor itself. For example, the monitor waits for when the state changes back to **Success** or green. Alerts can be manually resolved in the Operations console. However, we don't recommend that you manually resolve the alerts. If the alert is manually resolved, the resolved state of the alert doesn't match the state of the monitored object.

## Determine whether an alert is raised by a monitor

You can use some Windows PowerShell cmdlets to determine whether an alert is raised by a monitor. The following is a sample of a script that determines whether an alert is raised by a monitor:

```powershell
#get all alerts
$alerts = get-alert

#get only alerts generated by a monitor and not closed
$alerts = get-alert | where {$_.IsMonitorAlert -eq $true -and $_.ResolutionState -ne 255}

#format a table with alert info
$alert | sort-object LastModified, Name | ft Name, LastModified

#print number of alerts
$alerts.Count

#get only alerts generated by a rule and not closed
$alerts = get-alert | where {$_.IsMonitorAlert -eq $false -and $_.ResolutionState -ne 255}
```

## References

For more information about how to reset a monitor when closing an alert, see [How to: Reset monitor when closing alert?](/archive/blogs/mariussutara/how-to-reset-monitor-when-closing-alert).
