support/azure/active-directory/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in.md, before:

---
title: Verify first-party Microsoft applications in sign-in reports
description: Describes how to verify first-party Microsoft applications in sign-in reports.
ms.date: 12/05/2023
ms.reviewer: bernaw, domooney, v-six
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: compliance
ms.custom: has-azure-ad-ps-ref
---
# Verify first-party Microsoft applications in sign-in reports

When you're reviewing your sign-in reports, you might see an application in your sign-in report that you don't own and want to identify the application. You also might wonder how you signed into that app, if you don't remember accessing the app.

Here's an example sign-in report:

:::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/sign-in-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a sign-in report in Microsoft Entra ID.":::

For example, when you access `learn.microsoft.com`, the application that's shown in the sign-in log may say `dev-rel-auth-prod`, which isn't descriptive of `learn.microsoft.com`.

Although the apps that are listed in sign-in reports are owned by Microsoft and aren't suspicious applications, you can determine whether Microsoft owns a Microsoft Entra service principal that's found in your Microsoft Entra logs.

> [!NOTE]
> First-party Microsoft applications don't always result in a service principal that's created in your tenant. In this case, you'll likely continue to see the applications in your sign-in reports. This article lists the [application IDs of commonly used Microsoft applications](#application-ids-of-commonly-used-microsoft-applications).

<a name='verify-a-first-party-microsoft-service-principal-in-your-azure-ad-tenant'></a>

## Verify a first-party Microsoft service principal in your Microsoft Entra tenant

1. Open the [list of enterprise applications in Microsoft Entra ID](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_IAM/StartboardApplicationsMenuBlade/AllApps/menuId/).

2. In the navigation pane, select **All applications**.

3. In the **Application Type** drop-down list, select **Microsoft Applications**, and then select **Apply**. All applications that are listed here are owned by Microsoft.

    :::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/microsoft-applications-in-application-type-menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Application Type drop-down menu where Microsoft Applications are selected.":::

4. In the search box below the drop-down lists, filter the Microsoft application list by adding a specific **Display Name** or **Application ID**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/add-display-name-in-searchbox.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the search box where a display name is entered.":::

5. Select the desired app, and then select **Properties** in the navigation pane to view the listed app's properties. Verify that you see the following error message:

   ```output
   You can't delete this application because it's a Microsoft first party application.
   ```

    :::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/you-cant-delete-this-application.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the message that displays the statement you can't delete this application because it's a Microsoft first-party application.":::

## Verify a first-party Microsoft service principal through PowerShell

1. Open the Azure Active Directory module in PowerShell.

2. In the PowerShell module, enter the following cmdlet:

   ```cmd
   Get-AzureADServicePrincipal -Filter "DisplayName eq '<display-name>'" | fl *
   ```

   Replace `<display name>` with the app's actual display name.

3. Review the result's `AppOwnerTenantId`.

    :::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/review-the-app-owner-tenant-id.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the output of a request to show the Microsoft Entra service principal.":::

   In the screenshot, `f8cdef31-a31e-4b4a-93e4-5f571e91255a` is the Microsoft Service's Microsoft Entra tenant ID.

## Application IDs of commonly used Microsoft applications

The following table lists some, but not all, first-party Microsoft applications. You may see these applications in the Sign-ins report in Microsoft Entra ID.  

|Application Name|Application IDs|
|--|--|
|ACOM Azure Website|23523755-3a2b-41ca-9315-f81f3f566a95|
|ADIbizaUX|74658136-14ec-4630-ad9b-26e160ff0fc6|
|AEM-DualAuth|69893ee3-dd10-4b1c-832d-4870354be3d8|
|App Service|7ab7862c-4c57-491e-8a45-d52a7e023983|
|ASM Campaign Servicing|0cb7b9ec-5336-483b-bc31-b15b5788de71|
|Azure Advanced Threat Protection|7b7531ad-5926-4f2d-8a1d-38495ad33e17|
|Azure Data Lake|e9f49c6b-5ce5-44c8-925d-015017e9f7ad|
|Azure Lab Services Portal|835b2a73-6e10-4aa5-a979-21dfda45231c|
|Azure Portal|c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c|
|AzureSupportCenter|37182072-3c9c-4f6a-a4b3-b3f91cacffce|
|Bing|9ea1ad79-fdb6-4f9a-8bc3-2b70f96e34c7|
|ContactsInferencingEmailProcessor|20a11fe0-faa8-4df5-baf2-f965f8f9972e|
|CPIM Service|bb2a2e3a-c5e7-4f0a-88e0-8e01fd3fc1f4|
|CRM Power BI Integration|e64aa8bc-8eb4-40e2-898b-cf261a25954f|
|Dataverse|00000007-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Enterprise Roaming and Backup|60c8bde5-3167-4f92-8fdb-059f6176dc0f|
|Exchange Admin Center|497effe9-df71-4043-a8bb-14cf78c4b63b|
|FindTime|f5eaa862-7f08-448c-9c4e-f4047d4d4521|
|Focused Inbox|b669c6ea-1adf-453f-b8bc-6d526592b419|
|GroupsRemoteApiRestClient|c35cb2ba-f88b-4d15-aa9d-37bd443522e1|
|HxService|d9b8ec3a-1e4e-4e08-b3c2-5baf00c0fcb0|
|IAM Supportability|a57aca87-cbc0-4f3c-8b9e-dc095fdc8978|
|IrisSelectionFrontDoor|16aeb910-ce68-41d1-9ac3-9e1673ac9575|
|MCAPI Authorization Prod|d73f4b35-55c9-48c7-8b10-651f6f2acb2e|
|Media Analysis and Transformation Service|944f0bd1-117b-4b1c-af26-804ed95e767e<br>0cd196ee-71bf-4fd6-a57c-b491ffd4fb1e|
|Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance Center|80ccca67-54bd-44ab-8625-4b79c4dc7775|
|Microsoft 365 Support Service|ee272b19-4411-433f-8f28-5c13cb6fd407|
|Microsoft App Access Panel|0000000c-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Microsoft Approval Management|65d91a3d-ab74-42e6-8a2f-0add61688c74<br>38049638-cc2c-4cde-abe4-4479d721ed44|
|Microsoft Authentication Broker|29d9ed98-a469-4536-ade2-f981bc1d605e|
|Microsoft Azure CLI|04b07795-8ddb-461a-bbee-02f9e1bf7b46|
|Microsoft Azure PowerShell|1950a258-227b-4e31-a9cf-717495945fc2|
|MicrosoftAzureActiveAuthn|0000001a-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Microsoft Bing Search|cf36b471-5b44-428c-9ce7-313bf84528de|
|Microsoft Bing Search for Microsoft Edge|2d7f3606-b07d-41d1-b9d2-0d0c9296a6e8|
|Microsoft Bing Default Search Engine|1786c5ed-9644-47b2-8aa0-7201292175b6|
|Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps|3090ab82-f1c1-4cdf-af2c-5d7a6f3e2cc7|
|Microsoft Docs|18fbca16-2224-45f6-85b0-f7bf2b39b3f3|
|Microsoft Dynamics ERP|00000015-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Microsoft Edge Insider Addons Prod|6253bca8-faf2-4587-8f2f-b056d80998a7|
|Microsoft Exchange ForwardSync|99b904fd-a1fe-455c-b86c-2f9fb1da7687|
|Microsoft Exchange Online Protection|00000007-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|Microsoft Exchange ProtectedServiceHost|51be292c-a17e-4f17-9a7e-4b661fb16dd2|
|Microsoft Exchange REST API Based Powershell|fb78d390-0c51-40cd-8e17-fdbfab77341b|
|Microsoft Forms|c9a559d2-7aab-4f13-a6ed-e7e9c52aec87|
|Microsoft Graph|00000003-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Microsoft Intune Web Company Portal|74bcdadc-2fdc-4bb3-8459-76d06952a0e9|
|Microsoft Intune Windows Agent|fc0f3af4-6835-4174-b806-f7db311fd2f3|
|Microsoft Office|d3590ed6-52b3-4102-aeff-aad2292ab01c|
|Microsoft Office 365 Portal|00000006-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|Microsoft Office Web Apps Service|67e3df25-268a-4324-a550-0de1c7f97287|
|Microsoft Online Syndication Partner Portal|d176f6e7-38e5-40c9-8a78-3998aab820e7|
|Microsoft password reset service|93625bc8-bfe2-437a-97e0-3d0060024faa|
|Microsoft Power BI|871c010f-5e61-4fb1-83ac-98610a7e9110|
|Microsoft Storefronts|28b567f6-162c-4f54-99a0-6887f387bbcc|
|Microsoft Stream Portal|cf53fce8-def6-4aeb-8d30-b158e7b1cf83|
|Microsoft Substrate Management|98db8bd6-0cc0-4e67-9de5-f187f1cd1b41|
|Microsoft Support|fdf9885b-dd37-42bf-82e5-c3129ef5a302|
|Microsoft Teams|1fec8e78-bce4-4aaf-ab1b-5451cc387264|
|Microsoft Teams Services|cc15fd57-2c6c-4117-a88c-83b1d56b4bbe|
|Microsoft Teams Web Client|5e3ce6c0-2b1f-4285-8d4b-75ee78787346|
|Microsoft Whiteboard Services|95de633a-083e-42f5-b444-a4295d8e9314|
|O365 SkypeSpaces Ingestion Service|dfe74da8-9279-44ec-8fb2-2aed9e1c73d0|
|O365 Suite UX|4345a7b9-9a63-4910-a426-35363201d503|
|Office 365 Exchange Online|00000002-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|Office 365 Management|00b41c95-dab0-4487-9791-b9d2c32c80f2|
|Office 365 Search Service|66a88757-258c-4c72-893c-3e8bed4d6899|
|Office 365 SharePoint Online|00000003-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|Office Delve|94c63fef-13a3-47bc-8074-75af8c65887a|
|Office Online Add-in SSO|93d53678-613d-4013-afc1-62e9e444a0a5|
|Office Online Client Microsoft Entra ID- Augmentation Loop|2abdc806-e091-4495-9b10-b04d93c3f040|
|Office Online Client Microsoft Entra ID- Loki|b23dd4db-9142-4734-867f-3577f640ad0c|
|Office Online Client Microsoft Entra ID- Maker|17d5e35f-655b-4fb0-8ae6-86356e9a49f5|
|Office Online Client MSA- Loki|b6e69c34-5f1f-4c34-8cdf-7fea120b8670|
|Office Online Core SSO|243c63a3-247d-41c5-9d83-7788c43f1c43|
|Office Online Search|a9b49b65-0a12-430b-9540-c80b3332c127|
|Office.com|4b233688-031c-404b-9a80-a4f3f2351f90|
|Office365 Shell WCSS-Client|89bee1f7-5e6e-4d8a-9f3d-ecd601259da7|
|OfficeClientService|0f698dd4-f011-4d23-a33e-b36416dcb1e6|
|OfficeHome|4765445b-32c6-49b0-83e6-1d93765276ca|
|OfficeShredderWacClient|4d5c2d63-cf83-4365-853c-925fd1a64357|
|OMSOctopiPROD|62256cef-54c0-4cb4-bcac-4c67989bdc40|
|OneDrive SyncEngine|ab9b8c07-8f02-4f72-87fa-80105867a763|
|OneNote|2d4d3d8e-2be3-4bef-9f87-7875a61c29de|
|Outlook Mobile|27922004-5251-4030-b22d-91ecd9a37ea4|
|Partner Customer Delegated Admin Offline Processor|a3475900-ccec-4a69-98f5-a65cd5dc5306|
|Password Breach Authenticator|bdd48c81-3a58-4ea9-849c-ebea7f6b6360|
|PeoplePredictions|35d54a08-36c9-4847-9018-93934c62740c|
|Power BI Service|00000009-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Scheduling|ae8e128e-080f-4086-b0e3-4c19301ada69|
|SharedWithMe|ffcb16e8-f789-467c-8ce9-f826a080d987|
|SharePoint Online Web Client Extensibility|08e18876-6177-487e-b8b5-cf950c1e598c|
|Signup|b4bddae8-ab25-483e-8670-df09b9f1d0ea|
|Skype for Business Online|00000004-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|SpoolsProvisioning|61109738-7d2b-4a0b-9fe3-660b1ff83505|
|Sticky Notes API|91ca2ca5-3b3e-41dd-ab65-809fa3dffffa|
|Substrate Context Service|13937bba-652e-4c46-b222-3003f4d1ff97|
|SubstrateDirectoryEventProcessor|26abc9a8-24f0-4b11-8234-e86ede698878|
|Substrate Search Settings Management Service|a970bac6-63fe-4ec5-8884-8536862c42d4|
|Sway|905fcf26-4eb7-48a0-9ff0-8dcc7194b5ba|
|Transcript Ingestion|97cb1f73-50df-47d1-8fb0-0271f2728514|
|Universal Store Native Client|268761a2-03f3-40df-8a8b-c3db24145b6b|
|Viva Engage (formerly Yammer)|00000005-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|WeveEngine|3c896ded-22c5-450f-91f6-3d1ef0848f6e|
|Windows Azure Active Directory|00000002-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Windows Azure Security Resource Provider|8edd93e1-2103-40b4-bd70-6e34e586362d|
|Windows Azure Service Management API|797f4846-ba00-4fd7-ba43-dac1f8f63013|
|WindowsDefenderATP Portal|a3b79187-70b2-4139-83f9-6016c58cd27b|
|Windows Search|26a7ee05-5602-4d76-a7ba-eae8b7b67941|
|Windows Spotlight|1b3c667f-cde3-4090-b60b-3d2abd0117f0|
|Windows Store for Business|45a330b1-b1ec-4cc1-9161-9f03992aa49f|
|Yammer Web|c1c74fed-04c9-4704-80dc-9f79a2e515cb|
|Yammer Web Embed|e1ef36fd-b883-4dbf-97f0-9ece4b576fc6|

## Application IDs of Microsoft tenant-owned applications

The following table lists some, but not all, Microsoft tenant-owned applications (tenant ID: 72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47).

|Application Name|Application IDs|
|--|--|
|Graph Explorer|de8bc8b5-d9f9-48b1-a8ad-b748da725064|
|Microsoft Graph Command Line Tools|14d82eec-204b-4c2f-b7e8-296a70dab67e|
|OutlookUserSettingsConsumer|7ae974c5-1af7-4923-af3a-fb1fd14dcb7e|
|Vortex [wsfed enabled]|5572c4c0-d078-44ce-b81c-6cbf8d3ed39e|

## More information

For more information, see [Sign-in activity reports in the Microsoft Entra admin center](/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/concept-sign-ins#sign-ins-report).

[!INCLUDE [Azure Help Support](../../includes/azure-help-support.md)]

Commit message:

Create an include file for feedback (#5315)
* Create an include file for feedback

* Update feedback.md

* Update error-code-AADSTS50105-user-not-assigned-role.md

* Update error-code-AADSTS50105-user-not-assigned-role.md

* Update error-code-AADSTS50105-user-not-assigned-role.md

* Update error-code-AADSTS75011-auth-method-mismatch.md

* Update proxyaddresses-attribute-populate.md

* Update verify-first-party-apps-sign-in.md

* Update cannot-pull-image-from-acr-to-aks-cluster.md

* Update files-troubleshoot-smb-connectivity.md

* Update invalid-client-secret.md

* Update troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update.md

* Update cannot-pull-image-from-acr-to-aks-cluster.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Jerry Sitser <36421998+przlplx@users.noreply.github.com>

support/azure/active-directory/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in.md, after:

---
title: Verify first-party Microsoft applications in sign-in reports
description: Describes how to verify first-party Microsoft applications in sign-in reports.
ms.date: 12/05/2023
ms.reviewer: bernaw, domooney, v-six
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: compliance
ms.custom: has-azure-ad-ps-ref
---
# Verify first-party Microsoft applications in sign-in reports

[!INCLUDE [Feedback](../../includes/feedback.md)]

When you review your sign-in reports, you might see an application in your sign-in report that you don't own and want to identify. You also might wonder how you signed in to that app, if you don't remember accessing the app.

Here's an example sign-in report:

:::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/sign-in-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a sign-in report in Microsoft Entra ID.":::

For example, when you access `learn.microsoft.com`, the application that's shown in the sign-in log may show `dev-rel-auth-prod`, but this isn't descriptive of `learn.microsoft.com`.

Although the apps that are listed in sign-in reports are owned by Microsoft and aren't suspicious applications, you can determine whether Microsoft owns a Microsoft Entra service principal that's found in your Microsoft Entra logs.

> [!NOTE]
> First-party Microsoft applications don't always result in a service principal that's created in your tenant. In this case, you'll likely continue to see the applications in your sign-in reports. This article lists the [application IDs of commonly used Microsoft applications](#application-ids-of-commonly-used-microsoft-applications).

<a name='verify-a-first-party-microsoft-service-principal-in-your-azure-ad-tenant'></a>

## Verify a first-party Microsoft service principal in your Microsoft Entra tenant

1. Open the [list of enterprise applications in Microsoft Entra ID](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_IAM/StartboardApplicationsMenuBlade/AllApps/menuId/).

2. In the navigation pane, select **All applications**.

3. In the **Application Type** drop-down list, select **Microsoft Applications**, and then select **Apply**. All applications that are listed here are owned by Microsoft.

    :::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/microsoft-applications-in-application-type-menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Application Type drop-down menu where Microsoft Applications are selected.":::

4. In the search box below the drop-down lists, filter the Microsoft application list by adding a specific **Display Name** or **Application ID**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/add-display-name-in-searchbox.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the search box where a display name is entered.":::

5. Select the desired app, and then select **Properties** in the navigation pane to view the listed app's properties. Verify that you see the following error message:

   ```output
   You can't delete this application because it's a Microsoft first party application.
   ```

    :::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/you-cant-delete-this-application.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the message that displays the statement you can't delete this application because it's a Microsoft first-party application.":::

## Verify a first-party Microsoft service principal through PowerShell

1. Open the Azure Active Directory module in PowerShell.

2. In the PowerShell module, enter the following cmdlet:

   ```cmd
   Get-AzureADServicePrincipal -Filter "DisplayName eq '<display-name>'" | fl *
   ```

   Replace `<display name>` with the app's actual display name.

3. Review the result's `AppOwnerTenantId`.

    :::image type="content" source="media/verify-first-party-apps-sign-in/review-the-app-owner-tenant-id.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the output of a request to show the Microsoft Entra service principal.":::

   In the screenshot, `f8cdef31-a31e-4b4a-93e4-5f571e91255a` is the Microsoft Service's Microsoft Entra tenant ID.

## Application IDs of commonly used Microsoft applications

The following table lists some, but not all, first-party Microsoft applications. You may see these applications in the Sign-ins report in Microsoft Entra ID.  

|Application Name|Application IDs|
|--|--|
|ACOM Azure Website|23523755-3a2b-41ca-9315-f81f3f566a95|
|ADIbizaUX|74658136-14ec-4630-ad9b-26e160ff0fc6|
|AEM-DualAuth|69893ee3-dd10-4b1c-832d-4870354be3d8|
|App Service|7ab7862c-4c57-491e-8a45-d52a7e023983|
|ASM Campaign Servicing|0cb7b9ec-5336-483b-bc31-b15b5788de71|
|Azure Advanced Threat Protection|7b7531ad-5926-4f2d-8a1d-38495ad33e17|
|Azure Data Lake|e9f49c6b-5ce5-44c8-925d-015017e9f7ad|
|Azure Lab Services Portal|835b2a73-6e10-4aa5-a979-21dfda45231c|
|Azure Portal|c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c|
|AzureSupportCenter|37182072-3c9c-4f6a-a4b3-b3f91cacffce|
|Bing|9ea1ad79-fdb6-4f9a-8bc3-2b70f96e34c7|
|ContactsInferencingEmailProcessor|20a11fe0-faa8-4df5-baf2-f965f8f9972e|
|CPIM Service|bb2a2e3a-c5e7-4f0a-88e0-8e01fd3fc1f4|
|CRM Power BI Integration|e64aa8bc-8eb4-40e2-898b-cf261a25954f|
|Dataverse|00000007-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Enterprise Roaming and Backup|60c8bde5-3167-4f92-8fdb-059f6176dc0f|
|Exchange Admin Center|497effe9-df71-4043-a8bb-14cf78c4b63b|
|FindTime|f5eaa862-7f08-448c-9c4e-f4047d4d4521|
|Focused Inbox|b669c6ea-1adf-453f-b8bc-6d526592b419|
|GroupsRemoteApiRestClient|c35cb2ba-f88b-4d15-aa9d-37bd443522e1|
|HxService|d9b8ec3a-1e4e-4e08-b3c2-5baf00c0fcb0|
|IAM Supportability|a57aca87-cbc0-4f3c-8b9e-dc095fdc8978|
|IrisSelectionFrontDoor|16aeb910-ce68-41d1-9ac3-9e1673ac9575|
|MCAPI Authorization Prod|d73f4b35-55c9-48c7-8b10-651f6f2acb2e|
|Media Analysis and Transformation Service|944f0bd1-117b-4b1c-af26-804ed95e767e<br>0cd196ee-71bf-4fd6-a57c-b491ffd4fb1e|
|Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance Center|80ccca67-54bd-44ab-8625-4b79c4dc7775|
|Microsoft 365 Support Service|ee272b19-4411-433f-8f28-5c13cb6fd407|
|Microsoft App Access Panel|0000000c-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Microsoft Approval Management|65d91a3d-ab74-42e6-8a2f-0add61688c74<br>38049638-cc2c-4cde-abe4-4479d721ed44|
|Microsoft Authentication Broker|29d9ed98-a469-4536-ade2-f981bc1d605e|
|Microsoft Azure CLI|04b07795-8ddb-461a-bbee-02f9e1bf7b46|
|Microsoft Azure PowerShell|1950a258-227b-4e31-a9cf-717495945fc2|
|MicrosoftAzureActiveAuthn|0000001a-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Microsoft Bing Search|cf36b471-5b44-428c-9ce7-313bf84528de|
|Microsoft Bing Search for Microsoft Edge|2d7f3606-b07d-41d1-b9d2-0d0c9296a6e8|
|Microsoft Bing Default Search Engine|1786c5ed-9644-47b2-8aa0-7201292175b6|
|Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps|3090ab82-f1c1-4cdf-af2c-5d7a6f3e2cc7|
|Microsoft Docs|18fbca16-2224-45f6-85b0-f7bf2b39b3f3|
|Microsoft Dynamics ERP|00000015-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Microsoft Edge Insider Addons Prod|6253bca8-faf2-4587-8f2f-b056d80998a7|
|Microsoft Exchange ForwardSync|99b904fd-a1fe-455c-b86c-2f9fb1da7687|
|Microsoft Exchange Online Protection|00000007-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|Microsoft Exchange ProtectedServiceHost|51be292c-a17e-4f17-9a7e-4b661fb16dd2|
|Microsoft Exchange REST API Based Powershell|fb78d390-0c51-40cd-8e17-fdbfab77341b|
|Microsoft Forms|c9a559d2-7aab-4f13-a6ed-e7e9c52aec87|
|Microsoft Graph|00000003-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Microsoft Intune Web Company Portal|74bcdadc-2fdc-4bb3-8459-76d06952a0e9|
|Microsoft Intune Windows Agent|fc0f3af4-6835-4174-b806-f7db311fd2f3|
|Microsoft Office|d3590ed6-52b3-4102-aeff-aad2292ab01c|
|Microsoft Office 365 Portal|00000006-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|Microsoft Office Web Apps Service|67e3df25-268a-4324-a550-0de1c7f97287|
|Microsoft Online Syndication Partner Portal|d176f6e7-38e5-40c9-8a78-3998aab820e7|
|Microsoft password reset service|93625bc8-bfe2-437a-97e0-3d0060024faa|
|Microsoft Power BI|871c010f-5e61-4fb1-83ac-98610a7e9110|
|Microsoft Storefronts|28b567f6-162c-4f54-99a0-6887f387bbcc|
|Microsoft Stream Portal|cf53fce8-def6-4aeb-8d30-b158e7b1cf83|
|Microsoft Substrate Management|98db8bd6-0cc0-4e67-9de5-f187f1cd1b41|
|Microsoft Support|fdf9885b-dd37-42bf-82e5-c3129ef5a302|
|Microsoft Teams|1fec8e78-bce4-4aaf-ab1b-5451cc387264|
|Microsoft Teams Services|cc15fd57-2c6c-4117-a88c-83b1d56b4bbe|
|Microsoft Teams Web Client|5e3ce6c0-2b1f-4285-8d4b-75ee78787346|
|Microsoft Whiteboard Services|95de633a-083e-42f5-b444-a4295d8e9314|
|O365 SkypeSpaces Ingestion Service|dfe74da8-9279-44ec-8fb2-2aed9e1c73d0|
|O365 Suite UX|4345a7b9-9a63-4910-a426-35363201d503|
|Office 365 Exchange Online|00000002-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|Office 365 Management|00b41c95-dab0-4487-9791-b9d2c32c80f2|
|Office 365 Search Service|66a88757-258c-4c72-893c-3e8bed4d6899|
|Office 365 SharePoint Online|00000003-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|Office Delve|94c63fef-13a3-47bc-8074-75af8c65887a|
|Office Online Add-in SSO|93d53678-613d-4013-afc1-62e9e444a0a5|
|Office Online Client Microsoft Entra ID- Augmentation Loop|2abdc806-e091-4495-9b10-b04d93c3f040|
|Office Online Client Microsoft Entra ID- Loki|b23dd4db-9142-4734-867f-3577f640ad0c|
|Office Online Client Microsoft Entra ID- Maker|17d5e35f-655b-4fb0-8ae6-86356e9a49f5|
|Office Online Client MSA- Loki|b6e69c34-5f1f-4c34-8cdf-7fea120b8670|
|Office Online Core SSO|243c63a3-247d-41c5-9d83-7788c43f1c43|
|Office Online Search|a9b49b65-0a12-430b-9540-c80b3332c127|
|Office.com|4b233688-031c-404b-9a80-a4f3f2351f90|
|Office365 Shell WCSS-Client|89bee1f7-5e6e-4d8a-9f3d-ecd601259da7|
|OfficeClientService|0f698dd4-f011-4d23-a33e-b36416dcb1e6|
|OfficeHome|4765445b-32c6-49b0-83e6-1d93765276ca|
|OfficeShredderWacClient|4d5c2d63-cf83-4365-853c-925fd1a64357|
|OMSOctopiPROD|62256cef-54c0-4cb4-bcac-4c67989bdc40|
|OneDrive SyncEngine|ab9b8c07-8f02-4f72-87fa-80105867a763|
|OneNote|2d4d3d8e-2be3-4bef-9f87-7875a61c29de|
|Outlook Mobile|27922004-5251-4030-b22d-91ecd9a37ea4|
|Partner Customer Delegated Admin Offline Processor|a3475900-ccec-4a69-98f5-a65cd5dc5306|
|Password Breach Authenticator|bdd48c81-3a58-4ea9-849c-ebea7f6b6360|
|PeoplePredictions|35d54a08-36c9-4847-9018-93934c62740c|
|Power BI Service|00000009-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Scheduling|ae8e128e-080f-4086-b0e3-4c19301ada69|
|SharedWithMe|ffcb16e8-f789-467c-8ce9-f826a080d987|
|SharePoint Online Web Client Extensibility|08e18876-6177-487e-b8b5-cf950c1e598c|
|Signup|b4bddae8-ab25-483e-8670-df09b9f1d0ea|
|Skype for Business Online|00000004-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|SpoolsProvisioning|61109738-7d2b-4a0b-9fe3-660b1ff83505|
|Sticky Notes API|91ca2ca5-3b3e-41dd-ab65-809fa3dffffa|
|Substrate Context Service|13937bba-652e-4c46-b222-3003f4d1ff97|
|SubstrateDirectoryEventProcessor|26abc9a8-24f0-4b11-8234-e86ede698878|
|Substrate Search Settings Management Service|a970bac6-63fe-4ec5-8884-8536862c42d4|
|Sway|905fcf26-4eb7-48a0-9ff0-8dcc7194b5ba|
|Transcript Ingestion|97cb1f73-50df-47d1-8fb0-0271f2728514|
|Universal Store Native Client|268761a2-03f3-40df-8a8b-c3db24145b6b|
|Viva Engage (formerly Yammer)|00000005-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000|
|WeveEngine|3c896ded-22c5-450f-91f6-3d1ef0848f6e|
|Windows Azure Active Directory|00000002-0000-0000-c000-000000000000|
|Windows Azure Security Resource Provider|8edd93e1-2103-40b4-bd70-6e34e586362d|
|Windows Azure Service Management API|797f4846-ba00-4fd7-ba43-dac1f8f63013|
|WindowsDefenderATP Portal|a3b79187-70b2-4139-83f9-6016c58cd27b|
|Windows Search|26a7ee05-5602-4d76-a7ba-eae8b7b67941|
|Windows Spotlight|1b3c667f-cde3-4090-b60b-3d2abd0117f0|
|Windows Store for Business|45a330b1-b1ec-4cc1-9161-9f03992aa49f|
|Yammer Web|c1c74fed-04c9-4704-80dc-9f79a2e515cb|
|Yammer Web Embed|e1ef36fd-b883-4dbf-97f0-9ece4b576fc6|

## Application IDs of Microsoft tenant-owned applications

The following table lists some, but not all, Microsoft tenant-owned applications (tenant ID: 72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47).

|Application Name|Application IDs|
|--|--|
|Graph Explorer|de8bc8b5-d9f9-48b1-a8ad-b748da725064|
|Microsoft Graph Command Line Tools|14d82eec-204b-4c2f-b7e8-296a70dab67e|
|OutlookUserSettingsConsumer|7ae974c5-1af7-4923-af3a-fb1fd14dcb7e|
|Vortex [wsfed enabled]|5572c4c0-d078-44ce-b81c-6cbf8d3ed39e|

## More information

For more information, see [Sign-in activity reports in the Microsoft Entra admin center](/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/concept-sign-ins#sign-ins-report).

[!INCLUDE [Azure Help Support](../../includes/azure-help-support.md)]
