support/mem/intune/device-enrollment/windows-user-cannot-enroll.md, before:

---
title: Windows user is not authorized to enroll in Intune
description: Troubleshooting guidance for when a user cannot enroll a Windows device in Microsoft Intune
ms.date: 12/02/2021
ms.reviewer: kaushika, joelste
search.appverid: MET150
---

# Windows user is not authorized to enroll

This article gives troubleshooting steps to help resolve an issue where a user is not authorized to enroll their Windows device.

## Symptom

When a user tries to enroll a Windows device, they see one of the following error messages:

> Error 0x801c003: "This user is not authorized to enroll. You can try to do this again or contact your system administrator with the error code (0x801c0003)."

> Error 80180003: "Something went wrong. This user is not authorized to enroll. You can try to do this again or contact your system administrator with error code 80180003."

## Cause

These errors can result from any of the following conditions:

- The user has already enrolled the maximum number of devices allowed in Intune. (See [Solution 1](#solution-1) and [Solution 2](#solution-2).)
- The device is blocked by the device type restrictions. (See [Solution 3](#solution-3).)
- The computer is running Windows 10 Home. However, enrolling in Intune or joining Microsoft Entra ID is only supported on Windows 10 Pro and higher editions. (See [Solution 4](#solution-4).)
- The Microsoft Entra setting **Users may join devices to Microsoft Entra ID** is set to **None**, which prevents new users from joining their devices to Microsoft Entra ID. Therefore Intune enrollment fails. (See [Solution 5](#solution-5).)

Try the following solutions, depending on your scenario.

## Solution 1

If your user has reached the maximum number of allowed devices, use these steps to remove unused devices.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
1. Go to **Users** > **All Users**.
1. Select the affected user account, and then click **Devices**.
1. Select any unused or unwanted devices, and then click **Delete**.

## Solution 2

If there are no unused devices to remove, use these steps to increase the device enrollment limit.

> [!NOTE]
> This method increases the device enrollment limit for all users, not just the affected user.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
1. Go to **Devices** > **Enrollment restrictions** > **Default** (under **Device limit restrictions**) > **Properties** > **Edit** (next to **Device limit**) > increase the **Device limit** (maximum 15)> **Review + Save**.

## Solution 3

Check if device enrollment is blocked by device type restrictions.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431) with a global administrator account.
1. Go to **Devices** > **Enrollment restrictions**, and then select the **Default** restriction under **Device Type Restrictions**.
1. Select **Platforms**, and then select **Allow** for **Windows (MDM)**.

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > If the current setting is already **Allow**, change it to **Block**, save the setting, and then change it back to **Allow** and save the setting again. This resets the enrollment setting.
1. Wait for approximately 15 minutes, and then enroll the affected device again.

## Solution 4

[Upgrade Windows 10 Home to Windows 10 Pro](https://support.microsoft.com/help/12384/windows-10-upgrading-home-to-pro) or a higher edition.

## Solution 5

Check or update your Microsoft Entra settings to allow users to join devices.

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/) as an administrator.
1. Go to **Microsoft Entra ID** > **Devices** > **Device Settings**.
1. Set **Users may join devices to Microsoft Entra ID** to **All**.
1. Enroll the device again.

Commit message:

Updated the article for inclusiveness
In our digital age, technologies like GPT have made information incredibly accessible. This article is open to the public, reaching individuals from all corners, including those with visual impairments. To enhance inclusivity, please consider a language tweak: replace "see" with "read." This small adjustment promotes accessibility for everyone, ensuring seamless engagement regardless of abilities. Similarly, replace "see" with "encounter".

support/mem/intune/device-enrollment/windows-user-cannot-enroll.md, after:

---
title: Windows user is not authorized to enroll in Intune
description: Troubleshooting guidance for when a user cannot enroll a Windows device in Microsoft Intune
ms.date: 12/02/2021
ms.reviewer: kaushika, joelste
search.appverid: MET150
---

# Windows user is not authorized to enroll

This article gives troubleshooting steps to help resolve an issue where a user is not authorized to enroll their Windows device.

## Symptom

When a user tries to enroll a Windows device, they encounter one of the following error messages:

> Error 0x801c003: "This user is not authorized to enroll. You can try to do this again or contact your system administrator with the error code (0x801c0003)."

> Error 80180003: "Something went wrong. This user is not authorized to enroll. You can try to do this again or contact your system administrator with error code 80180003."

## Cause

These errors can result from any of the following conditions:

- The user has already enrolled the maximum number of devices allowed in Intune. (Read [Solution 1](#solution-1) and [Solution 2](#solution-2).)
- The device is blocked by the device type restrictions. (Read [Solution 3](#solution-3).)
- The computer is running Windows 10 Home. However, enrolling in Intune or joining Microsoft Entra ID is only supported on Windows 10 Pro and higher editions. (Read [Solution 4](#solution-4).)
- The Microsoft Entra setting **Users may join devices to Microsoft Entra ID** is set to **None**, which prevents new users from joining their devices to Microsoft Entra ID. Therefore Intune enrollment fails. (Read [Solution 5](#solution-5).)

Try the following solutions, depending on your scenario.

## Solution 1

If your user has reached the maximum number of allowed devices, use these steps to remove unused devices.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
1. Go to **Users** > **All Users**.
1. Select the affected user account, and then click **Devices**.
1. Select any unused or unwanted devices, and then click **Delete**.

## Solution 2

If there are no unused devices to remove, use these steps to increase the device enrollment limit.

> [!NOTE]
> This method increases the device enrollment limit for all users, not just the affected user.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431).
1. Go to **Devices** > **Enrollment restrictions** > **Default** (under **Device limit restrictions**) > **Properties** > **Edit** (next to **Device limit**) > increase the **Device limit** (maximum 15)> **Review + Save**.

## Solution 3

Check if device enrollment is blocked by device type restrictions.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431) with a global administrator account.
1. Go to **Devices** > **Enrollment restrictions**, and then select the **Default** restriction under **Device Type Restrictions**.
1. Select **Platforms**, and then select **Allow** for **Windows (MDM)**.

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > If the current setting is already **Allow**, change it to **Block**, save the setting, and then change it back to **Allow** and save the setting again. This resets the enrollment setting.
1. Wait for approximately 15 minutes, and then enroll the affected device again.

## Solution 4

[Upgrade Windows 10 Home to Windows 10 Pro](https://support.microsoft.com/help/12384/windows-10-upgrading-home-to-pro) or a higher edition.

## Solution 5

Check or update your Microsoft Entra settings to allow users to join devices.

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/) as an administrator.
1. Go to **Microsoft Entra ID** > **Devices** > **Device Settings**.
1. Set **Users may join devices to Microsoft Entra ID** to **All**.
1. Enroll the device again.
