support/sql/database-engine/connect/connection-to-linked-server-failed.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting issues when connection to the linked server fails
description: This article provides symptoms, cause, and resolution for troubleshooting the error that occurs when there is a failure in connecting to the linked server.
ms.date: 12/14/2023
author: prmadhes-msft
ms.author: prmadhes
ms.reviewer: jopilov, haiyingyu, mastewa, v-jayaramanp
ms.custom: sap:Connection issues
---

# Connection to the linked server failed

This article helps you to resolve the errors that occur when the connection to linked server fails.After Windows server patches are installed, connection to the linked server failed.

## Symptoms

The following error messages are generated:

> "TCP Provider: An existing connection was forcibly closed by the remote host."

> "OLE DB provider "MSOLEDBSQL" for linked server "PAYMENT GATEWAY" returned message "Client unable to establish connection". (Microsoft SQL Server, Error: 10054)"

> "Source SQL Version SQL 2019 Enterprise Edition"

> "Destination SQL Version SQL 2016 Enterprise Edition"

Screenshot to be added.

## Cause

After installing the patches, there was a change in ciphers for client and SQL Server and hence there were communication issues. To check the cipher's value on the client and server machines, follow these steps:

1. Open PowerShell with administrative privileges and run the following command on both servers that is your client and main server.

`Get-ItemPropertyValue  -Path HKLM:\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Cryptography\Configuration\Local\SSL\00010002\ -Name Functions`

1. Check and compare these two values from both machines. If they are different, then it means the ciphers are different for both servers.

## Resolution

See the [Scenario 2: Matching TLS protocols on the client and the server, but no matching TLS cipher suites](tls-exist-connection-closed.md).

Commit message:

Updated error format
Added TOC entries

Combined commits

Updated text and fixed formats

support/sql/database-engine/connect/connection-to-linked-server-failed.md, after:

---
title: Connection to the linked server failed errors
description: This article provides symptoms, cause, and resolution for troubleshooting the error that occurs when there is a failure in connecting to the linked server.
ms.date: 01/03/2024
author: prmadhes-msft
ms.author: prmadhes
ms.reviewer: jopilov, haiyingyu, mastewa, v-jayaramanp
ms.custom: sap:Connection issues
---

# Connection to the linked server failed

This article helps you to resolve the errors that occur when the connection to linked server fails. After Windows server patches are installed, connection to the linked server failed.

## Symptoms

The following error messages are shown:

> TCP Provider: An existing connection was forcibly closed by the remote host.

> OLE DB provider "MSOLEDBSQL" for linked server "PAYMENT GATEWAY" returned message "Client unable to establish connection". (Microsoft SQL Server, Error: 10054)

> Source SQL Version SQL 2019 Enterprise Edition

> Destination SQL Version SQL 2016 Enterprise Edition

  :::image type="content" source="media/connection-to-linked-server-failed/connection-to-linked-server-failed.png" alt-text="Connection to the linked server has failed.":::

## Cause

After installing the patches, there was a change in ciphers for client and SQL Server and hence there were communication issues. To check the cipher's value on the client and server machines, follow these steps:

1. Open PowerShell with administrative privileges and run the following command on both servers that's your client and main server.

 ```powershell
 Get-ItemPropertyValue  -Path HKLM:\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Cryptography\Configuration\Local\SSL\00010002\ -Name Functions
 ```

1. Check and compare these two values from both machines. If they are different, then it means the ciphers are different for both servers.

## Resolution

See the [Scenario 2: Matching TLS protocols on the client and the server, but no matching TLS cipher suites](tls-exist-connection-closed.md).
