support/sql/database-engine/connect/corrupt-user-profile.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting the Windows user profile issue 
description: This article provides a resolution for issues that are caused by a corrupted Windows user profile.
ms.date: 02/26/2024
author: Malcolm-Stewart
ms.author: mastewa
ms.reviewer: jopilov, haiyingyu, prmadhes, v-jayaramanp
ms.custom: sap:Connection issues
---

# Windows user profile can't be loaded

This article helps you resolve issues that occur because of a corrupted Windows user profile.

## Symptoms

You receive the following error message:

> The User Profile Service service failed the sign-in. User profile cannot be loaded.

## Cause

If you log in as the affected user, you'll get a [temporary profile](/windows/win32/shell/temporary-user-profiles). This is a good indication that the user profile is corrupted or that you're a guest user.

## Resolution

If you're a guest user, then you must be added to the appropriate groups. For more information, see [Add or delete users](/entra/fundamentals/add-users).

If you aren't a guest user, follow the steps in [Fix a corrupted user profile in Windows](https://support.microsoft.com/windows/fix-a-corrupted-user-profile-in-windows-1cf41c18-7ce3-12f9-8e1d-95896661c5c9) to either repair the profile or delete and re-create the profile.

Commit message:

Added SQL Server context in metadata, title and updated TOC

support/sql/database-engine/connect/corrupt-user-profile.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting the Windows user profile issue in SQL Server
description: This article provides a resolution for issues that are caused by a corrupted Windows user profile in SQL Server.
ms.date: 02/27/2024
author: Malcolm-Stewart
ms.author: mastewa
ms.reviewer: jopilov, haiyingyu, prmadhes, v-jayaramanp
ms.custom: sap:Connection issues
---

# Windows user profile can't be loaded in SQL Server

This article helps you resolve issues that occur because of a corrupted Windows user profile.

## Symptoms

You receive the following error message:

> The User Profile Service service failed the sign-in. User profile cannot be loaded.

## Cause

If you log in as the affected user, you'll get a [temporary profile](/windows/win32/shell/temporary-user-profiles). This is a good indication that the user profile is corrupted or that you're a guest user.

## Resolution

If you're a guest user, then you must be added to the appropriate groups. For more information, see [Add or delete users](/entra/fundamentals/add-users).

If you aren't a guest user, follow the steps in [Fix a corrupted user profile in Windows](https://support.microsoft.com/windows/fix-a-corrupted-user-profile-in-windows-1cf41c18-7ce3-12f9-8e1d-95896661c5c9) to either repair the profile or delete and re-create the profile.
