---
title: Outlook Room Finder doesn't show conference rooms
description: This article discusses an issue where using an older version of Microsoft Exchange Server to generate offline address book files may cause conference rooms to not appear in Microsoft Outlook.
author: cloud-writer
ms.author: meerak
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: troubleshooting
localization_priority: Normal
ms.reviewer: kartik
ms.custom: 
  - Outlook for Windows
  - CSSTroubleshoot
search.appverid: 
  - MET150
appliesto: 
  - Outlook 2010 with Business Contact Manager
  - Outlook 2010
ms.date: 01/30/2024
---
# Outlook 2010 Room Finder doesn't show any conference rooms

_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 2811855

## Symptoms

Consider the following scenario:

- Outlook 2010 is configured to access an Exchange Server 2010 mailbox with an Exchange cached mode profile.
- You create a new meeting and use the Room Finder feature.

In this situation, the room lists are displayed but the conference rooms aren't displayed under **Choose an available Room**.

> [!NOTE]
> The issue doesn't occur when you use an Online mode profile.

## Cause

The offline address book (OAB) is generated by Exchange Server 2003 or Microsoft Exchange Server 2007. In order for the Room Finder feature to work, the OAB must be generated by Exchange Server 2010 or a later version.

## Resolution

Use the following steps to reconfigure the Exchange servers so that Exchange Server 2010 is generating the OABs:

1. Move the OAB generation from the older version of Exchange server to an Exchange Server 2010 mailbox server. Depending on the versions of Exchange Server in your environment, for more information, see the following articles:

    - [Configuring Exchange Server 2003 Offline Address Books](/previous-versions/tn-archive/aa996929(v=exchg.65))

    - [Exchange Server 2007: Managing Offline Address Books](/previous-versions/office/exchange-server-2007/bb124351(v=exchg.80))

    - [Exchange Server 2010: Managing Offline Address Books](/previous-versions/office/exchange-server-2010/bb124351(v=exchg.141))

2. Force an OAB update to create a folder for the OAB on the Exchange Server 2010 mailbox server. For more information about how to do this, see [Update the Offline Address Book](/previous-versions/office/exchange-server-2010/aa997684(v=exchg.141)).

3. In Outlook 2010, verify that the new OAB is fully downloaded and working successfully. To download the address book, follow these steps:

   1. On the **Send/Receive** tab, click **Send/Receive Groups**, and then click **Download Address Book**.
   2. In the **Offline Address Book** dialog box, make sure that the Download changes since last **Send/Receive** check box is selected.
   3. Click **OK**.

4. Schedule a meeting and use the Room Finder feature to verify that the list of conference rooms is available.
