---
title: Error code 8005E273 when you test and enable a mailbox
description: Provides a resolution for error code 8005E273 that occurs when you test and enable a mailbox for server-side synchronization.
ms.date: 05/09/2024
ms.custom: sap:E-mail and Microsoft 365 Integration\Set up and configuration of server-side synchronization
author: rahulmital
ms.author: rahulmital
---
# Error code 8005E273 when you test and enable a mailbox

This article provides a resolution for error code 8005E273 that occurs when you test and enable a mailbox for server-side synchronization in Microsoft Dataverse.

## Symptoms

When a user tries to [test and enable a mailbox](/power-platform/admin/connect-exchange-online#test-the-configuration-of-mailboxes) in Microsoft Dataverse, the test fails with error code 8005E273.

## Cause

This issue occurs because the associated Microsoft Graph user is disabled. The Microsoft 365 account associated with the email address isn't enabled in the Microsoft 365 tenant associated with the email server profile.

## Resolution

1. Verify that the account is enabled and sign-in isn't blocked.

   1. Go to the [Microsoft 365 admin center](https://admin.cloud.microsoft).

   1. Go to **Users** > **Active users**, and then select **Add a user**.
   1. In the **Set up the basics** pane, fill in the basic user information, and then select **Next**.

       - **Name**: Fill in the first and last name, display name, and username.
       - **Domain**: Choose the domain for the user's account. For example, if the user's username is Jakob and the domain is contoso.com, they'll sign in using `jakob@contoso.com`.
       - **Password settings**: Choose to use the autogenerated password or to create your own strong password for the user.
       - The user must change their password after 90 days. Or, you can choose to **Require this user to change their password when they first sign in**.
       - Choose whether to email the password when the user is added.

      In the **Assign product licenses** pane, select the location and appropriate license for the user. If you don't have available licenses, you can still add a user and buy additional licenses. Expand **Apps**, select or deselect apps to limit the apps the user has a license for, and then select **Next**.

   1. In the **Optional settings** pane, expand **Roles** to set up this user as an administrator. Expand **Profile info** to add additional information to the user.
   1. Select **Next**, review your new user's settings, or make changes, then select **Finish adding**, and then select **Close**.

2. Test and enable the mailbox again.

    1. Open the mailbox record if it isn't already open.
    2. Select the **Test & Enable Mailbox** button.
    3. Wait for the "Test & Enable" process to complete. If the test results aren't **Success**, review the **Alerts** area within the mailbox record.
