---
title: The Disk Space status of a Teams Rooms device is Unhealthy
description: Resolve the issue that causes the Disk Space signal of a Microsoft Teams Rooms device to appear as Unhealthy.
ms.reviewer: bthompson
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.date: 10/30/2023
author: helenclu
ms.author: luche
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: Admin
search.appverid: 
  - SPO160
  - MET150
appliesto: 
  - Microsoft Teams
ms.custom: 
  - sap:MTR Pro
  - CI167274
---
# The Disk Space status is Unhealthy

## Symptoms

In the [Microsoft Teams Rooms Pro Management portal](https://portal.rooms.microsoft.com/), the **Disk Space** signal of a Microsoft Teams Rooms device is shown as **Unhealthy**.

Depending on the amount of disk space available, you may experience slowness, an inability to download files, an update failure, an unresponsive system, and so on. Typically, the amount of available disk space is exhausted after you install a Windows feature update.

This signal is flagged as Unhealthy when the free disk space on the system drive (usually C:) drops below 18 percent and is less than 15 GB.

## Remediation by Teams Rooms Pro

When low disk space is reported, Teams Rooms Pro performs a remediation to free up folder space that's known to grow and isn't critical to Teams Rooms functionality. Remediation is triggered after several hours to prevent any disruption to active meetings. The following actions are taken:

- Temporary, cache, download, and old log files are deleted from all user folders.
- Backups of the *SoftwareDistribution* folder that were created by Windows Update repairs are removed.
- If the device is out of the defined Windows version rollback period, the *C:\ESD* folder is deleted.
- All application directories except the last two previous version application directories of the Teams Rooms Pro agents are deleted.
- TMP files that are older than 10 days that are generated by the Teams Rooms app desktop API service are deleted.
- All users recycle bins are emptied.
- Hibernation is disabled.
- Page file management is set to system management.
- If any event log is larger than 20 MB, the maximum event log size is set to 20 MB.
- If any event log is larger than 100 MB and the amount of free space is less than 10 percent, the event log is cleared.
- If the amount of free disk space is greater than 5 percent and the [WinSxS folder](/windows-hardware/manufacture/desktop/manage-the-component-store) is less than 25 GB, the built-in `StartComponentCleanup` task is run. Or `DISM /StartComponentCleanup` is run to reduce the size of the WinSxS folder.
- If Volume Shadow Copy (VSS) snapshots consume more than 5 percent of the total disk space, shadow storage is set to a maximum of 5 percent.
- Disk Cleanup is used to remove unnecessary files.

> [!NOTE]
> Remediation automation waits up to five minutes until Windows Disk Cleanup completes all tasks. The task can free up a lot of disk space after the remediation process finishes and posts results to the portal.

## Remediation result

After remediation is completed, you'll see one of the following results:

- Remediated

  When the remediation is considered successful, the device will have more headroom than the trigger thresholds and will report the overall results to the portal. The results will state the previous total disk space and the new total disk space. The **Disk Space** signal will be flagged as **Healthy** shortly after remediation result is available.
- Additional action required

  If the remediation doesn't free enough space to relieve the thresholds, another task is run to collect a recursive list of folder sizes. The largest folders are posted to the portal in a list so that you can take further action to free up enough space to fix the issue and flag the signal as Healthy.
