---
title: Teams Rooms doesn't start automatically after a Windows update
description: After Windows updates are installed on a Teams Rooms device and the system restarts, the Microsoft Teams Rooms app doesn't start automatically.
ms.reviewer: gosepulv
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.date: 10/30/2023
author: helenclu
ms.author: luche
manager: dcscontentpm
audience: Admin
localization_priority: Normal
search.appverid: 
  - SPO160
  - MET150
appliesto: 
  - Microsoft Teams
ms.custom: 
  - CI174147
---
# Teams Rooms app doesn't start automatically after a Windows update

## Symptoms

After Windows updates are installed on a Teams Rooms device and the system restarts, the Microsoft Teams Rooms app doesn't start automatically.

## Cause

The issue occurs because Windows Update installs an unsupported version of Windows on the device.

## Resolution

To fix this issue, follow these steps:

1. [Switch to admin mode](/MicrosoftTeams/rooms/rooms-operations#admin-mode-and-device-management), open an elevated Command Prompt window, and then run the following PowerShell command to collect logs:

   ```powershell
   powershell -ExecutionPolicy unrestricted c:\rigel\x64\scripts\provisioning\ScriptLaunch.ps1 CollectSrsV2Logs.ps1
   ```

1. Locate the .zip log file in *C:\rigel* that has a filename that resembles *SRSv2-\<Device Name\>-\<DateTime\>.zip*.
1. Open the .zip file, and then locate and open the *MSInfo32.txt* file.
1. Compare the **OS Name** and **Version** values with the [versions of Windows 10 that support Teams Rooms](/MicrosoftTeams/rooms/rooms-lifecycle-support#windows-10-release-support) to verify that an unsupported version of Windows is installed.
1. Use the [Microsoft Teams Rooms recovery tool](/microsoftteams/rooms/recovery-tool) to restore the device to a supported state. You can use the recovery tool only on [supported devices](/microsoftteams/rooms/requirements#hardware-requirements).

   > [!NOTE]  
   > If any update policies are still applied to the device after you run the recovery tool, the issue might recur when the device restarts unexpectedly because the update policies force the device to reinstall the problematic update. To prevent this, it's important to review and modify the update policies after the recovery process. For more information about how to manage Windows updates for Teams Rooms devices by using [Group Policy](/troubleshoot/windows-server/group-policy/use-group-policy-to-install-software), [Intune](/mem/intune/protect/windows-update-for-business-configure#windows-10-feature-updates), or [Configuration Manager](/mem/configmgr/osd/deploy-use/manage-windows-as-a-service), see [Manage Windows Updates](/microsoftteams/rooms/updates) and [Windows 10 release support](/MicrosoftTeams/rooms/rooms-lifecycle-support#windows-10-release-support). Alternatively, consider excluding these devices from your Windows Update management.

## More information

To check whether Windows updates are being applied to Teams Rooms devices, use the logs that are generated by the tool that's used to manage Windows updates in your organization. For more information about Windows Update log files and how to troubleshoot Windows Update issues, see the following articles:

- [Windows Update log files](/windows/deployment/update/windows-update-logs)
- [About log files in Configuration Manager](/mem/configmgr/core/plan-design/hierarchy/about-log-files)
- [Collect diagnostics from a Windows device](/mem/intune/remote-actions/collect-diagnostics)
- [Windows Update issues troubleshooting](/troubleshoot/windows-client/deployment/windows-update-issues-troubleshooting)
