---
title: Peer-to-peer replication fails
description: This article helps you resolve the problem that occurs when you create a peer-to-peer publication from SQL scripts in Microsoft SQL Server.
ms.date: 03/16/2020
ms.custom: sap:Replication, change tracking, change data capture
ms.reviewer: daleche, chrissk
---
# 102 and incorrect syntax near sp_MS errors when you create peer-to-peer replication in SQL Server

This article helps you resolve the problem that occurs when you create a peer-to-peer publication from SQL scripts in Microsoft SQL Server.

_Original product version:_ &nbsp; SQL Server 2017, SQL Server 2016  
_Original KB number:_ &nbsp; 4465517

## Symptoms

When you create a peer-to-peer publication from SQL scripts in Microsoft SQL Server, the Distribution Agent in a replication fails and generates **incorrect syntax near** error messages.

These error messages appear in the SQL Server Agent job history, in a SQL Profiler trace, or in an Agent logging file that's generated by using the **-Output** parameter. For example, the following error messages are generated by running an `INSERT` stored procedure for the `Production.product` table for the AdventureWorks2017 sample database:

SQL Server Agent Error message

> Error messages:  
> Incorrect syntax near 'sp_MSins_ProductionProduct'. (Source: MSSQLServer, Error number: 102)  
> Get help: http://help/102

SQL Profiler Trace

> Profiler Trace failing  statement with missing "." between schema and procedure name  
>if object_id(N'[dbo][sp_MSins_ProductionProduct]', 'P') > 0  
> drop proc [dbo][sp_MSins_ProductionProduct]

Agent Log error message

> Time stamp    Connecting to Subscriber  
> Time stamp    Initializing  
> Time stamp    Agent message code 102. Incorrect syntax near ''sp_MSins_ProductionProduct''.  
> Time stamp    Category:COMMAND  
> Source: Failed Command  
> Number:  
> Message: if @@trancount > 0 rollback tran  
> Time stamp    Category:NULL  
> Source: Microsoft SQL Server Native Client 11.0  
> Number: 102  
> Message: Incorrect syntax near ''sp_MSins_ProductionProduct''.  

> [!NOTE]
> You may see error messages for other replications that are generated for such stored procedure as `sp_MSdel_{article}` and `sp_MDupd_{article}`.

## Cause

This problem occurs when you add articles to an existing peer-to-peer publication by using Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio 17.x.x. When you do this, the replication generates a stored procedure name that's prefixed by using the `[dbo]` schema. You can see this by scripting out the publication in the `sp_addarticle` command, as shown the following example.

```sql
 exec sp_addarticle @publication = N'Products', @article = N'Product',
 @source_owner = N'Production', @source_object = N'Product',
 ...
 @ins_cmd = N'CALL [dbo].[sp_MSins_ProductionProduct]',
 @del_cmd = N'CALL [dbo].[sp_MSdel_ProductionProduct]',
 @upd_cmd = N'SCALL [dbo].[sp_MSupd_ProductionProduct]' 
 GO
```

Running a replication script to rebuild the peer-to-peer environment, the `sp_addarticle` logic parses out a period (".") that causes an invalid CALL syntax, such as `CALL [dbo][sp_MSins_ProductionProduct]`.

## Resolution

To fix this problem, follow these steps:

1. Script out all peer-to-peer publications, as shown in the **Cause** section.
2. To remove the `dbo` schema prefix from the stored procedure calls, globally find the `ALL [dbo].[` text. Then, replace this with `ALL [`.

> [!NOTE]
> - If you're setting up a new peer-to-peer environment, the quickest solution to this problem might be to drop the publication, change the script, and then re-create the peer-to-peer environment. 
> - If only one or two tables are failing, consider dropping those articles from the publication, editing the script, then restoring the articles to the publication.

The tables and data determine which option you should choose. If the broken tables represent a large part of the database, and the data includes changes, we recommend that you try to rebuild the peer-to-peer environment through a fresh backup-restore process, and that you use the peer-to-peer wizard to re-create the topology.

Corrected syntax

```sql
@ins_cmd = N'CALL [sp_MSins_ProductionProduct]',
@del_cmd = N'CALL [sp_MSdel_ProductionProduct]',
@upd_cmd = N'SCALL [sp_MSupd_ProductionProduct]'
```

## Prevention

When you add new articles to an existing peer-to-peer publication, open the **Article Properties** window, and remove the `[dbo].` schema prefix before you save the changes.

:::image type="content" source="media/peer-to-peer-replication-fails/remove-dbo-schema-prefix.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Article Properties window.":::

## Status

Microsoft has confirmed that this is a problem in the Microsoft products that are listed in **Original product version** at the beginning of this article.
