---
title: 80041317 or 80043431 when federated user sign in to Microsoft 365, Azure
description: Describes an issue in which a federated user receives an error message when they try to sign in to Microsoft 365, Azure, or Microsoft Intune from a sign-in webpage whose URL starts with "https://login.microsoft.com/login."
author: helenclu
manager: dcscontentpm
localization_priority: Normal
search.appverid: 
  - MET150
audience: ITPro
ms.custom: 
  - CSSTroubleshoot
  - has-azure-ad-ps-ref
  - azure-ad-ref-level-one-done
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.author: luche
appliesto: 
  - Cloud Services (Web roles/Worker roles)
  - Azure Active Directory
  - Microsoft Intune
  - Azure Backup
  - Microsoft 365
ms.date: 03/31/2022
---

# "80041317" or "80043431" error when federated users sign in to Microsoft 365, Azure, or Intune

## Problem 

When a federated user tries to sign in to a Microsoft cloud service such as Microsoft 365, Microsoft Azure, or Microsoft Intune from a sign-in webpage whose URL starts with "https://login.microsoftonline.com/login," authentication for that user fails. Additionally, the user receives the following error message:

```asciidoc
Sorry, but we're having trouble signing you in 

Please try again in a few minutes. If this doesn't work, you might want to contact your admin and report the following error:
80041317 or 80043431 
```

## Cause

This issue occurs when the configuration settings of the federated domain for the on-premises Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) service and for the Microsoft Entra authentication system are mismatched. This causes the claim that the AD FS service supplies to be malformed and therefore rejected by the Microsoft Entra authentication system. 

> [!NOTE]
> This can occur after the token-signing certificate is renewed on-premises without updating federation trust data.

[!INCLUDE [Azure AD PowerShell deprecation note](../../includes/aad-powershell-deprecation-note.md)]

To verify that this is the cause of the issue that you're experiencing, follow these steps on a domain-joined computer:

1. Verify the mismatched attribute between the AD FS service and the Microsoft cloud service. To do this, follow these steps:
   1. Click **Start**, click **All Programs**, click **Microsoft Entra ID**, and then click **Microsoft Azure Active Directory module for Windows PowerShell**.   
   2. At the command prompt, type the following commands. Make sure that you press Enter after you type each command:
      
      ```powershell
      $cred = get-credential
      ```
      > [!NOTE]
      > When you're prompted, enter your cloud service admin credentials.   
      
      ```powershell
      Connect-MSOLService –credential:$cred
      ```

      ```powershell
      Set-MSOLADFSContext –Computer:<AD FS 2.0 Server Name>
      ```
      > [!NOTE]
      > In this command, the placeholder <AD FS 2.0 Server Name> represents the Windows host name of the primary AD FS server.   
      
      ```powershell
      Get-MsolFederationProperty -domainname: <Federated Domain Name>
      ```
      > [!NOTE]
      > In this command, the \<Federated Domain Name> placeholder represents the name of the domain that's already federated with the cloud service for single sign-on (SSO).
   
      > [!NOTE]
      > The command output is divided into the following two sections:
      >  - The first line of the first section reads "Source: AD FS Server" and represents the configuration that's stored in the local AD FS service.   
      > - The first line of the second section reads "Source: \<Microsoft cloud service>" and represents the configuration that's stored in the identity service.
   
      The output resembles the following:

      :::image type="content" source="media/office-365-sign-in-error-80041317-80043431/output-result.png" alt-text="Screenshot of output result after typing the commands." border="false":::
2. Compare the values of each attribute in the two sections to determine whether the values are mismatched. If the values are mismatched, the federated domain configuration has to be updated.

## Solution 

To resolve this issue, use one of the following methods:

### Method 1: Update the configuration of the federated domain

For more information about how to do this, see the "How to update the configuration of the Microsoft 365 federated domain" section in [How to update or repair the settings of a federated domain in Microsoft 365, Azure, or Intune](https://support.microsoft.com/help/2647048).

### Method 2: Repair the configuration of the federated domain
 
If method 1 doesn't resolve the issue, try to repair the federated trust. For more information about how to do this, see the "How to repair the configuration of the Microsoft 365 federated domain" section in [How to update or to repair the configuration of the Microsoft 365 federated domain ](https://support.microsoft.com/help/2647048).

### Method 3: Manually update the attributes by using the Azure Active Directory module for Windows PowerShell

If methods 1 and 2 don't resolve the issue, try to manually update the mismatched attributes. In the Windows PowerShell connection that you used to diagnose the issue, run the appropriate cmdlet from the following table:

|Mismatched attributes| Error code| Command to update attribute| Notes|
|--------------------|------------|------------------|---------|
|FederationServiceIdentifier|80043431|Set-MSOLDomainFederationSettings -domain name <Domain.suffix> -issueruri \<newURI>|The placeholder <**Domain.suffix**> represents the federated domain name. The placeholder <**newURI**> represents the URI value of the on-premises FederationServiceIdentifierattribute (listed first in the output of the Get-MsolFederationProperty cmdlet). |

Still need help? Go to [Microsoft Community](https://answers.microsoft.com/) or the [Microsoft Entra Forums](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/forums/azure/home?forum=windowsazuread) website.
