support/azure/virtual-machines/troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update.md, before:

---
title: VM startup is stuck on "Getting Windows ready. Don't turn off your computer" in Azure
description: Introduce the steps to troubleshoot the issue in which VM startup is stuck on "Getting Windows ready. Don't turn off your computer."
services: virtual-machines
documentationcenter: ''
author: genlin
manager: dcscontentpm
tags: azure-resource-manager
ms.service: virtual-machines
ms.subservice: vm-cannot-start-stop
ms.collection: windows
ms.workload: infrastructure-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: vm-windows
ms.reviewer: jarrettr, v-leedennis
ms.date: 10/10/2023
ms.author: genli
---

# VM startup is stuck on "Getting Windows ready. Don't turn off your computer" in Azure

This article describes the "Getting ready" and "Getting Windows ready" screens that you may encounter when you boot a Windows virtual machine (VM) in Microsoft Azure. It provides steps to help you collect data for a support ticket.

## Symptoms

A Windows VM doesn't boot. When you use **Boot diagnostics** to get the screenshot of the VM, you may see that the VM displays the message "Getting ready" or "Getting Windows ready".

:::image type="content" source="media/troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update/getting-ready.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Windows Server 2012 R2 V M, showing the message: Getting ready.":::

:::image type="content" source="media/troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update/getting-windows-ready.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the V M, showing the message: Getting Windows ready." border="false":::

## Cause

Usually this issue occurs when the server is doing the final reboot after the configuration was changed. The configuration change might be initialized by Windows updates or by the changes on the roles/feature of the server. For Windows Update, if the size of the updates was large, the operating system needs more time to reconfigure the changes.

## Solution 1: Restore the VM from a backup

If you have a recent backup of the VM, you can try [restoring the VM from the backup](/azure/backup/backup-azure-arm-restore-vms) to fix the boot problem.

## Solution 2: Collect an OS memory dump file

If restoring the VM from backup isn't possible or doesn't resolve the problem, you have to collect a memory dump file so that the crash can be analyzed. To collect the dump file, see the following sections.

### Part 1: Attach the OS disk to a recovery VM

1. Take a snapshot of the OS disk of the affected VM as a backup. For more information, see [Snapshot a disk](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/snapshot-copy-managed-disk).
2. [Attach the OS disk to a recovery VM](./troubleshoot-recovery-disks-portal-windows.md).
3. Remote desktop to the recovery VM.
4. If the OS disk is encrypted, you must turn off the encryption before you move to the next step. For more information, see [Decrypt the encrypted OS disk in the VM that cannot boot](./troubleshoot-bitlocker-boot-error.md#decrypt-the-encrypted-os-disk).

### Part 2: Locate dump file and submit a support ticket

1. On the recovery VM, go to the Windows folder in the attached OS disk. If the drive letter that's assigned to the attached OS disk is F, you need to go to F:\Windows.
2. Locate the memory.dmp file, and then [submit a support ticket](https://portal.azure.com/?#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade) with the dump file.

If you can't find the dump file, go to the next section to enable the dump log and the Serial Console.

#### Enable dump log and Serial Console

To enable the dump log and the Serial Console, run the following script:

1. Open an administrative Command Prompt session.
2. Run the following script:

   > [!NOTE]  
   > In this script, we assume that the drive letter that is assigned to the attached OS disk is F. Replace it with the appropriate value in your VM.

    ```powershell
    reg load HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM F:\windows\system32\config\SYSTEM

    #Enable Serial Console
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /set {bootmgr} displaybootmenu yes
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /set {bootmgr} timeout 5
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /set {bootmgr} bootems yes
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /ems {default} ON
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /emssettings EMSPORT:1 EMSBAUDRATE:115200
    
    #Enable OS Dump

    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\CrashControl" /v CrashDumpEnabled /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "%SystemRoot%\MEMORY.DMP" /f
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\CrashControl" /v NMICrashDump /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet002\Control\CrashControl" /v CrashDumpEnabled /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet002\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "%SystemRoot%\MEMORY.DMP" /f
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet002\Control\CrashControl" /v NMICrashDump /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    
    reg unload HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM
    ```

    1. Make sure that there's enough space on the disk to allocate as much memory as the RAM, which depends on the size that you're selecting for this VM.
    2. If there isn't enough space or this is a large size VM (G, GS or E series), you could then change the location where this file is created and refer that to any other data disk that's attached to the VM. To do this, you have to modify registry keys, as shown in the following code:

        ```cmd
        reg load HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM F:\windows\system32\config\SYSTEM

        REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "<DRIVE LETTER OF YOUR DATA DISK>:\MEMORY.DMP" /f
        REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet002\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "<DRIVE LETTER OF YOUR DATA DISK>:\MEMORY.DMP" /f

        reg unload HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM
        ```

3. [Detach the OS disk and then Re-attach the OS disk to the affected VM](./troubleshoot-recovery-disks-portal-windows.md).
4. Start the VM and access the Serial Console.
5. Select **Send Non-Maskable Interrupt(NMI)** to trigger the memory dump.

    :::image type="content" source="media/troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update/run-nmi.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Send Non-Maskable Interrupt item.":::

6. Attach the OS disk to a recovery VM again, collect the dump file.

After you collect the dump file, contact Microsoft support to analyze the root cause.

[!INCLUDE [Azure Help Support](../../includes/azure-help-support.md)]

Commit message:

Create an include file for feedback (#5315)
* Create an include file for feedback

* Update feedback.md

* Update error-code-AADSTS50105-user-not-assigned-role.md

* Update error-code-AADSTS50105-user-not-assigned-role.md

* Update error-code-AADSTS50105-user-not-assigned-role.md

* Update error-code-AADSTS75011-auth-method-mismatch.md

* Update proxyaddresses-attribute-populate.md

* Update verify-first-party-apps-sign-in.md

* Update cannot-pull-image-from-acr-to-aks-cluster.md

* Update files-troubleshoot-smb-connectivity.md

* Update invalid-client-secret.md

* Update troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update.md

* Update cannot-pull-image-from-acr-to-aks-cluster.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Jerry Sitser <36421998+przlplx@users.noreply.github.com>

support/azure/virtual-machines/troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update.md, after:

---
title: VM startup is stuck on "Getting Windows ready. Don't turn off your computer" in Azure
description: Introduce the steps to troubleshoot the issue in which VM startup is stuck on "Getting Windows ready. Don't turn off your computer."
services: virtual-machines
documentationcenter: ''
author: genlin
manager: dcscontentpm
tags: azure-resource-manager
ms.service: virtual-machines
ms.subservice: vm-cannot-start-stop
ms.collection: windows
ms.workload: infrastructure-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: vm-windows
ms.reviewer: jarrettr, v-leedennis
ms.date: 10/10/2023
ms.author: genli
---

# VM startup is stuck on "Getting Windows ready. Don't turn off your computer" in Azure

This article describes the "Getting ready" and "Getting Windows ready" screens that you may encounter when you start a Windows virtual machine (VM) in Microsoft Azure. It provides steps to help you collect data for a support ticket.

[!INCLUDE [Feedback](../../includes/feedback.md)]

## Symptoms

A Windows VM doesn't start. When you use **Boot diagnostics** to get the screenshot of the VM, you may see that the VM displays the message "Getting ready" or "Getting Windows ready".

:::image type="content" source="media/troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update/getting-ready.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Windows Server 2012 R2 V M, showing the message: Getting ready.":::

:::image type="content" source="media/troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update/getting-windows-ready.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the V M, showing the message: Getting Windows ready." border="false":::

## Cause

Usually, this problem occurs when the server does the final restart after the configuration is changed. The configuration change might be initialized by Windows updates or by the changes on the roles or feature of the server. For Windows Update, if the updates were large, the operating system needs more time to reconfigure the changes.

## Solution 1: Restore the VM from a backup

If you have a recent backup of the VM, you can try [restoring the VM from the backup](/azure/backup/backup-azure-arm-restore-vms) to fix the startup problem.

## Solution 2: Collect an OS memory dump file

If restoring the VM from backup isn't possible or doesn't resolve the problem, you have to collect a memory dump file so that the crash can be analyzed. To collect the dump file, see the following sections.

### Part 1: Attach the OS disk to a recovery VM

1. Take a snapshot of the OS disk of the affected VM as a backup. For more information, see [Snapshot a disk](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/snapshot-copy-managed-disk).
2. [Attach the OS disk to a recovery VM](./troubleshoot-recovery-disks-portal-windows.md).
3. Remote desktop to the recovery VM.
4. If the OS disk is encrypted, you must turn off the encryption before you move to the next step. For more information, see [Decrypt the encrypted OS disk in the VM that cannot boot](./troubleshoot-bitlocker-boot-error.md#decrypt-the-encrypted-os-disk).

### Part 2: Locate dump file and submit a support ticket

1. On the recovery VM, go to the Windows folder in the attached OS disk. If the drive letter that's assigned to the attached OS disk is F, you need to go to F:\Windows.
2. Locate the memory.dmp file, and then [submit a support ticket](https://portal.azure.com/?#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade) with the dump file.

If you can't find the dump file, go to the next section to enable the dump log and the Serial Console.

#### Enable dump log and Serial Console

To enable the dump log and the Serial Console, run the following script:

1. Open an administrative Command Prompt session.
2. Run the following script:

   > [!NOTE]  
   > In this script, we assume that the drive letter that is assigned to the attached OS disk is F. Replace it with the appropriate value in your VM.

    ```powershell
    reg load HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM F:\windows\system32\config\SYSTEM

    #Enable Serial Console
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /set {bootmgr} displaybootmenu yes
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /set {bootmgr} timeout 5
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /set {bootmgr} bootems yes
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /ems {default} ON
    bcdedit /store F:\boot\bcd /emssettings EMSPORT:1 EMSBAUDRATE:115200
    
    #Enable OS Dump

    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\CrashControl" /v CrashDumpEnabled /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "%SystemRoot%\MEMORY.DMP" /f
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\CrashControl" /v NMICrashDump /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet002\Control\CrashControl" /v CrashDumpEnabled /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet002\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "%SystemRoot%\MEMORY.DMP" /f
    REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet002\Control\CrashControl" /v NMICrashDump /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f
    
    reg unload HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM
    ```

    1. Make sure that there's enough space on the disk to allocate as much memory as the RAM, which depends on the size that you're selecting for this VM.
    2. If there isn't enough space or this is a large size VM (G, GS or E series), you could then change the location where this file is created and refer that to any other data disk that's attached to the VM. To do this, you have to modify registry keys, as shown in the following code:

        ```cmd
        reg load HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM F:\windows\system32\config\SYSTEM

        REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "<DRIVE LETTER OF YOUR DATA DISK>:\MEMORY.DMP" /f
        REG ADD "HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM\ControlSet002\Control\CrashControl" /v DumpFile /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d "<DRIVE LETTER OF YOUR DATA DISK>:\MEMORY.DMP" /f

        reg unload HKLM\BROKENSYSTEM
        ```

3. [Detach the OS disk and then Re-attach the OS disk to the affected VM](./troubleshoot-recovery-disks-portal-windows.md).
4. Start the VM and access the Serial Console.
5. Select **Send Non-Maskable Interrupt(NMI)** to trigger the memory dump.

    :::image type="content" source="media/troubleshoot-vm-boot-configure-update/run-nmi.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Send Non-Maskable Interrupt item.":::

6. Attach the OS disk to a recovery VM again, and collect the dump file.

After you collect the dump file, contact Microsoft support to analyze the root cause.

[!INCLUDE [Azure Help Support](../../includes/azure-help-support.md)]
