Teams/includes/teams-content-updates.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated automatically each week. Changes made to this file will be overwritten.-->



## Week of October 02, 2023


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 10/5/2023 | [Exclude antivirus and DLP applications from blocking Teams](/microsoftteams/troubleshoot/teams-administration/include-exclude-teams-from-antivirus-dlp) | modified |


## Week of September 25, 2023


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 9/27/2023 | [Known issues in Teams Rooms and devices](/microsoftteams/troubleshoot/teams-rooms-and-devices/rooms-known-issues) | modified |


## Week of September 04, 2023


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 9/8/2023 | [The Camera status of a Teams Rooms device is Unhealthy](/microsoftteams/troubleshoot/teams-rooms-and-devices/camera-status-unhealthy) | modified |
| 9/8/2023 | [The Front of Room status of a Teams Rooms device is Unhealthy](/microsoftteams/troubleshoot/teams-rooms-and-devices/display-status-unhealthy) | modified |
| 9/8/2023 | [The microphone or speaker status of a Teams Rooms device is unhealthy](/microsoftteams/troubleshoot/teams-rooms-and-devices/microphone-speaker-status-unhealthy) | modified |

Commit message:

Uploaded file: teams-content-updates.md - 2023-11-18 23:31:19.3226

Teams/includes/teams-content-updates.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated automatically each week. Changes made to this file will be overwritten.-->



## Week of November 13, 2023


| Published On |Topic title | Change |
|------|------------|--------|
| 11/13/2023 | [Stale presence status in Teams for Mac](/microsoftteams/troubleshoot/teams-on-mac/incorrect-presence-status-teams-for-mac) | added |
| 11/15/2023 | Multi-factor authentication error in Microsoft Teams | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Documents open in protected view when downloaded from Teams desktop | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Teams members unable to sign in to some apps in Chrome version 80 | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Notifications and preview problems with Teams on iOS 13 preview | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Unable to switch accounts on Intune-managed mobile devices | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Wrong SharePoint user listed as site creator | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | File won't download in Teams | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Unable to rename legacy OneNote tabs | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Website tab in Teams causes customer confusion | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | How to activate guest users in the Microsoft Teams admin center | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Error (We can't get the activity log) when accessing the Microsoft Teams admin center | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Chromium sandbox optimizations incorrectly identified as threats by EAF policy in the Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET) | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Can't enable archiving or increase mailbox quota for Microsoft 365 Group mailboxes | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Public team list in Teams doesn't show all teams | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Welcome email not received by user when added by Teams administrator | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Can't access meetings or connectors with blocked EWS | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Lenovo Yoga L13 might shut down during Teams meetings | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Cannot hear sound when sharing content during a Teams live event | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Microsoft Teams Rooms can't open PowerPoint presentations after disabling TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 in Skype for Business Server 2019 and Skype for Business Server 2015 | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Virtual camera on MacOS Teams stops working | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | After password change in Teams you receive a sign-in error | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | The Teams for Surface Hub won't start from the Microsoft Store | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Safari Intelligent Tracking Prevention errors | removed |
| 11/15/2023 | Unable to access Google GSTATIC through Teams | removed |
