--- 
title: Troubleshoot no data in Application Insights for .NET
description: Review troubleshooting steps to try when you're not seeing any data in Azure Application Insights for .NET and .NET Core.
ms.date: 6/21/2022
author: DennisLee-DennisLee
ms.author: v-dele
editor: v-jsitser
ms.reviewer: aaronmax
ms.service: azure-monitor
ms.subservice: application-insights
ms.devlang: csharp
ms.custom: devx-track-csharp
#Customer intent: As an Azure Application Insights user, I want to know how to troubleshoot issues when I can't see data in Application Insights for .NET or .NET Core so I can use it effectively.  
---

# Troubleshoot no data - Azure Application Insights for .NET and .NET Core

This article provides troubleshooting information to help resolve issues when data is missing or doesn’t appear when you’re using Application Insights for .NET and .NET Core.

> [!NOTE]
> This article was recently updated to use the term *Azure Monitor logs* instead of *Log Analytics*. Log data is still stored in a Log Analytics workspace, and it's still collected and analyzed by the same Log Analytics service. We're updating the terminology to better reflect the role of [logs in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/data-platform-logs). See [Azure Monitor terminology changes](/azure/azure-monitor/terminology) for details.

## Some of my telemetry is missing

#### In Application Insights, I only see a fraction of the events that are being generated by my app

* If you're consistently seeing the same fraction, it's probably because of adaptive [sampling](/azure/azure-monitor/app/sampling). To confirm this cause, select **Overview** > **Search** and look at an instance of a **Request** or other event. To see the full property details, select the ellipsis (**...**) at the bottom of the **Properties** section. If the request count is greater than 1, sampling is in operation.

* It's possible that you're hitting a [data rate limit](/azure/azure-monitor/service-limits#application-insights) for your pricing plan. These limits are applied per minute.

#### I'm randomly experiencing data loss

* Check whether you're experiencing data loss at the [telemetry channel](/azure/azure-monitor/app/telemetry-channels#does-the-application-insights-channel-guarantee-telemetry-delivery-if-not-what-are-the-scenarios-in-which-telemetry-can-be-lost).

* Check for any known issues in the telemetry channel of the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-dotnet/issues).

>[!Note]
>If data is missing, it’s possible that the data is being rejected by the backend. This situation can occur for various reasons, including the following causes:
>
>* Required fields are missing
>* One or more fields exceed size limits
>* SDKs are failing silently instead of throwing exceptions
>
>You can use a tool like [Fiddler](https://www.telerik.com/fiddler/fiddler-classic), or any other tool that will inspect http traffic, to confirm successful telemetry uploads&mdash;the backend will return a "200 OK" http status code to indicate a successful upload. Or you can use the [SDK logs](#troubleshoot-logs) to see if the backend is rejecting data.  

#### I'm experiencing data loss in Console App or on Web App when the app is about to stop

* The SDK channel keeps telemetry in buffer, and sends it in batches. If the application is shutting down, you might need to explicitly call [Flush()](/azure/azure-monitor/app/api-custom-events-metrics#flushing-data). `Flush()` behavior depends on the actual [channel](/azure/azure-monitor/app/telemetry-channels#built-in-telemetry-channels) used.

* Per [.NET Core/.NET Framework Console application](/azure/azure-monitor/app/worker-service#net-corenet-framework-console-application), explicitly calling `Flush()` followed by sleep is required in console apps.

## Request count collected by Application Insights SDK doesn't match the IIS log count for my application

Internet Information Services (IIS) logs counts of all requests reaching IIS and can inherently differ from the total requests reaching an application. Due to this behavior, it isn't guaranteed that the request count collected by the SDKs will match the total IIS log count.

## No data from my server

#### I installed my app on my web server, and now I don't see any telemetry from it. It worked OK on my dev machine.

A firewall issue is most likely the cause. [Set firewall exceptions for Application Insights to send data](/azure/azure-monitor/app/ip-addresses).

#### I installed [Azure Monitor Application Insights Agent](/azure/azure-monitor/app/status-monitor-v2-overview) on my web server to monitor existing apps. I don't see any results.

See [Troubleshooting Status Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/app/status-monitor-v2-troubleshoot).

## Check TLS/SSL client settings (ASP.NET)

If you have an ASP.NET application hosted in Azure App Service or in IIS on a virtual machine, your application could fail to connect to the Snapshot Debugger service due to a missing SSL security protocol.

[The Snapshot Debugger endpoint requires TLS version 1.2](/azure/azure-monitor/snapshot-debugger/snapshot-debugger-upgrade). The set of SSL security protocols is one of the quirks enabled by the **\<httpRuntime>** element's **targetFramework** attribute value in the **\<system.web>** section of the *web.config* file.
If the target framework is 4.5.2 or lower, then TLS 1.2 isn't included by default.

> [!NOTE]
> The **\<httpRuntime>** element's **targetFramework** attribute value is independent of the target framework used when building your application.

To check the setting, open your web.config file and find the system.web section. Make sure that the **targetFramework** for **\<httpRuntime>** is set to 4.6 or above.

```xml
<system.web>
  ...
  <httpRuntime targetFramework="4.7.2" />
  ...
</system.web>
```

> [!NOTE]
> * Modifying the **\<httpRuntime>** element's **targetFramework** value changes the runtime quirks applied to your application and can cause other subtle behavior changes. Be sure to test your application thoroughly after making this change. For a full list of compatibility changes, see [Retargeting changes](/dotnet/framework/migration-guide/application-compatibility#retargeting-changes).
>
> * If the target framework is 4.7 or above, then Windows determines the available protocols. In Azure App Service, TLS 1.2 is available. However, if you're using your own virtual machine, you may need to enable TLS 1.2 in the OS.

## FileNotFoundException: "Could not load file or assembly Microsoft.AspNet TelemetryCorrelation"

For more information on this error, see [GitHub issue 1610](https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-dotnet/issues/1610).

When upgrading from Application Insights SDKs older than version 2.4, you need to make sure the following changes have been applied to the *web.config* and *ApplicationInsights.config* files:

1. In *web.config*, you should have two HTTP modules instead of one. Order is important for some scenarios:

    ```xml
    <system.webServer>
      <modules>
        <add name="TelemetryCorrelationHttpModule"
          type="Microsoft.AspNet.TelemetryCorrelation.TelemetryCorrelationHttpModule, Microsoft.AspNet.TelemetryCorrelation"
          preCondition="integratedMode,managedHandler" />
        <add name="ApplicationInsightsHttpModule"
          type="Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.Web.ApplicationInsightsHttpModule, Microsoft.AI.Web"
          preCondition="managedHandler" />
      </modules>
    </system.webServer>
    ```

2. In *ApplicationInsights.config*, in addition to `RequestTrackingTelemetryModule`, you should have the following telemetry module:

    ```xml
    <TelemetryModules>
      <Add Type="Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.Web.AspNetDiagnosticTelemetryModule, Microsoft.AI.Web"/>
    </TelemetryModules>
    ```

Failure to upgrade properly may lead to unexpected exceptions or telemetry not being collected.

## No "Add Application Insights" option in Visual Studio

#### When I right-click an existing project in Solution Explorer, I don't see any Application Insights options

* The tools don't support all types of .NET projects. Web and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) projects are supported. For other project types, such as desktop or service applications, you can still [add an Application Insights SDK to your project manually](/azure/azure-monitor/app/windows-desktop).

* Make sure you have [Visual Studio 2013 Update 3 or later](/visualstudio/releasenotes/vs2013-update3-rtm-vs). It comes pre-installed with Developer Analytics tools, which provide the Application Insights SDK.
* Select **Tools** > **Extensions and Updates**, and then check whether **Developer Analytics Tools** is installed and enabled. If it's installed and enabled, select **Updates** to see if there's an update available.
* Open the **New Project** dialog box and choose **ASP.NET Web Application**. If you see the **Application Insights** option there, then the tools are installed. If not, try uninstalling and then reinstalling the Developer Analytics tools.

## Adding Application Insights failed

#### When I try to add Application Insights to an existing project, I see an error message

Likely causes:

* Communication with the Application Insights portal failed.

* There's a problem with your Azure account.

* You only have [read access to the subscription or group where you were trying to create the new resource](/azure/azure-monitor/app/resources-roles-access-control).

Fix:

* Check that you provided sign-in credentials for the correct Azure account.

* In your browser, check that you have access to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). Open **Settings** and see if there's any restriction.
* [Add Application Insights to your existing project](/azure/azure-monitor/app/asp-net): In Solution Explorer, right-click your project and select **Add Application Insights**.

## "NuGet package(s) are missing" on my build server

#### Everything builds OK when I'm debugging on my development machine, but I get a NuGet error on the build server

See [NuGet Package Restore](/nuget/consume-packages/package-restore)
and [Automatic Package Restore](/nuget/consume-packages/package-restore#migrate-to-automatic-package-restore-visual-studio).

## Missing menu command to open Application Insights from Visual Studio

#### When I right-click my project Solution Explorer, I don't see any Application Insights commands, or I don't see an Open Application Insights command

Likely causes:

* You created the Application Insights resource manually.

* The project is of a type that isn't supported by the Application Insights tools.

* The Developer Analytics tools are disabled in your Visual Studio.
* Your version of Visual Studio is older than Visual Studio 2013 Update 3.

Fix:

* Make sure your Visual Studio version is Visual Studio 2013 update 3 or later.
* Select **Tools** > **Extensions and Updates** and check to make sure that **Developer Analytics Tools** is installed and enabled. If it's installed and enabled, select **Updates** to see if there's an update available.

* Right-click your project in Solution Explorer. If you see the command **Application Insights** > **Configure Application Insights**, use it to connect your project to the resource in the Application Insights service.

Otherwise, your project type isn't directly supported by the Developer Analytics tools. To see your telemetry, sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), search for and select **Application Insights**, and select your application.

## "Access denied" on opening Application Insights from Visual Studio

#### The "Open Application Insights" menu command takes me to the Azure portal, but I get an "access denied" error

The Microsoft sign-in that you last used on your default browser doesn't have access to [the resource that was created when Application Insights was added to this app](/azure/azure-monitor/app/asp-net). There are two likely causes:

| Cause | Solution |
| ----- | -------- |
| You have more than one Microsoft account&mdash;perhaps a work and a personal Microsoft account. If that's the case, the sign-in that you last used on your default browser was for a different account than the one that has access to [add Application Insights to the project](/azure/azure-monitor/app/asp-net). | Select your name at top right of the browser window, and sign out. Then sign in with the account that has access. Then, search for and select **Application Insights**, and select your application. |
| Someone else added Application Insights to the project, and they forgot to give you [access to the resource group](/azure/azure-monitor/app/resources-roles-access-control) in which it was created. | If they used an organizational account, they can add you to the team, or they can grant you individual access to the resource group. |

## "Asset not found" on opening Application Insights from Visual Studio

#### The "Open Application Insights" menu command takes me to the Azure portal, but I get an "asset not found" error

There are two likely causes:

* The Application Insights resource for your application has been deleted.

* Someone set or changed the [connection string](/azure/azure-monitor/app/sdk-connection-string) in ApplicationInsights.config without updating the project file.

The connection string in the *ApplicationInsights.config* file controls where the telemetry is sent. A line in the project file controls which resource is opened when you use the command in Visual Studio.

Apply one of the following fixes:

* In Solution Explorer, right-click the project and choose **Application Insights** > **Configure Application Insights**. In the dialog box, you can either choose to send telemetry to an existing resource, or create a new one.

* Open the resource directly. Sign in to [the Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), search for and select **Application Insights**, and select your application.

## Where do I find my telemetry?

#### I signed in to the Azure portal, and I'm looking at the Azure home dashboard. So where do I find my Application Insights data?

* Search for and select **Application Insights**, and select your application. If you don't have any projects there, you need to [add or configure Application Insights in your web project](/azure/azure-monitor/app/asp-net). There you'll see some summary charts. You can browse through them to see more detail.

* In Visual Studio, while you're debugging your app, select the **Application Insights** button.

## No server data (or no data at all)

#### I ran my app and then opened the Application Insights service in Microsoft Azure, but all the charts show "Learn how to collect...", "Not configured", or only page view and user data, but no server data

* Run your application in debug mode in Visual Studio (F5). Use the application so as to generate some telemetry. Check that you can see events logged in the Visual Studio output window.  

    :::image type="content" source="./media/asp-net-troubleshoot-no-data/output-window.png" alt-text="Screenshot of an application running in debug mode in Visual Studio.":::
* In the Application Insights portal, select **Overview** > [Search](/azure/azure-monitor/app/diagnostic-search). Data usually appears here first.
* Select the **Refresh** button. The blade refreshes itself periodically, but you can also do it manually. The refresh interval is longer for larger time ranges.
* Verify that the [connection strings](/azure/azure-monitor/app/sdk-connection-string) match. On the main blade for your app in the Application Insights portal, in the **Essentials** drop-down, look at **Connection string**. Then, in your project in Visual Studio, open *ApplicationInsights.config* and find the **\<ConnectionString>** element. Check whether the two strings are equal. If the strings don't match, take one of the following actions:

  | Environment | Action |
  | ----------- | ------ |
  | [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) | Search for and select **Application Insights**, and then look for the app resource with the right string. |
  | Visual Studio | In Visual Studio Solution Explorer, right-click the project and select **Application Insights** > **Configure**. Reset the app to send telemetry to the correct resource. |

  If you can't find the matching strings, check to make sure that you're using the same sign-in credentials in Visual Studio that you're using to sign in to the portal.
* In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), search for and select **Service Health**. If the map has some alert indications, wait until they've returned to health, and then close and reopen your Application Insights application blade.
* Check [our status blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-monitor-status/bg-p/AzureMonitorStatusBlog).
* Did you write any code for the [server-side SDK](/azure/azure-monitor/app/api-custom-events-metrics) that might change the [connection string](/azure/azure-monitor/app/sdk-connection-string) in `TelemetryClient` instances or in `TelemetryContext`? Or did you write a [filter or sampling configuration](/azure/azure-monitor/app/api-filtering-sampling) that might be filtering out too much?
* If you edited *ApplicationInsights.config*, carefully check the configuration of [\<TelemetryInitializers> and \<TelemetryProcessors> elements](/azure/azure-monitor/app/api-filtering-sampling). An incorrectly named type or parameter can cause the SDK to send no data.

## No data on page views, browsers, and usage

#### I see data in server response time and server requests charts, but no data in page view load time, or in the Browser or Usage blades

The data comes from scripts in the web pages. 

* If you added Application Insights to an existing web project, [you have to add the scripts by hand](/azure/azure-monitor/app/javascript).

* Make sure Internet Explorer isn't displaying your site in Compatibility mode.

* Use the browser's debug feature (F12 on some browsers, then choose **Network**) to verify that data is being sent to `dc.services.visualstudio.com`.

## No dependency or exception data

See [dependency telemetry](/azure/azure-monitor/app/asp-net-dependencies) and [exception telemetry](/azure/azure-monitor/app/asp-net-exceptions).

## No performance data

Performance data (CPU, I/O rate, and so on) is available for the following environments under **Settings** > **Servers**:

* [Java web services](/azure/azure-monitor/app/java-2x-collectd)
* [Windows desktop apps](/azure/azure-monitor/app/windows-desktop)
* [IIS web apps and services](/azure/azure-monitor/app/status-monitor-v2-overview) (if you install Application Insights Agent)
* [Azure Cloud Services](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview)

## No (server) data since I published the app to my server

* Check that you copied all the `Microsoft.ApplicationInsights` DLLs to the server, together with *Microsoft.Diagnostics.Instrumentation.Extensions.Intercept.dll*.

* In your firewall, you might have to [open some TCP ports](/azure/azure-monitor/app/ip-addresses).
* If you have to use a proxy to send out of your corporate network, set the [\<defaultProxy>](/previous-versions/dotnet/netframework-1.1/aa903360(v=vs.71)) element in *web.config*.

## I used to see data, but it's stopped

Have you hit your monthly quota of data points? Open the Settings/Quota and Pricing to find out. If so, you can upgrade your plan, or pay for more capacity. See the [pricing scheme](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/).

## I don't see all the data I'm expecting

If your application sends considerable data and you're using the Application Insights SDK for ASP.NET version 2.0.0-beta3 or later, the [adaptive sampling](/azure/azure-monitor/app/sampling#adaptive-sampling) feature may operate and send only a percentage of your telemetry.

You can disable it, but doing so isn't recommended. Sampling is designed so that related telemetry is correctly transmitted, for diagnostic purposes.

## Client IP address is 0.0.0.0

On February 5 2018, we announced that we removed logging of the Client IP address. This recommendation doesn't affect geolocation.

> [!NOTE]
> If you need the first 3 octets of the IP address, you can use a [telemetry initializer](/azure/azure-monitor/app/api-filtering-sampling#addmodify-properties-itelemetryinitializer) to add a custom attribute.
> This doesn't affect data collected before February 5, 2018.

## Wrong geographical data in user telemetry

The city and country/region dimensions are derived from IP addresses and aren't always accurate. These IP addresses are processed for location first and then changed to 0.0.0.0 to be stored.

## Exception "method not found" on running in Azure Cloud Services

Did you build for .NET [Long Term Support (LTS)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core)? Earlier versions aren't automatically supported in Azure Cloud Services roles. [Install LTS on each role](/azure/cloud-services/cloud-services-dotnet-install-dotnet) before running your app.

## Troubleshoot logs

Follow these instructions to capture troubleshooting logs for your framework.

#### .NET Framework

> [!NOTE]
> Starting in version 2.14, the [Microsoft.AspNet.ApplicationInsights.HostingStartup](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNet.ApplicationInsights.HostingStartup) package is no longer necessary. SDK logs are now collected with the [Microsoft.ApplicationInsights](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ApplicationInsights/) package. No additional package is required.

1. Modify your *ApplicationInsights.config* file to include the following XML code:

    ```xml
    <TelemetryModules>
      <Add Type="Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.Extensibility.Implementation.Tracing.FileDiagnosticsTelemetryModule, Microsoft.ApplicationInsights">
        <Severity>Verbose</Severity>
        <LogFileName>mylog.txt</LogFileName>
        <LogFilePath>C:\\SDKLOGS</LogFilePath>
      </Add>
    </TelemetryModules>
    ```

    Your application must have write permissions to the configured location.

2. Restart the process so that these new settings are picked up by the SDK.

3. Revert these changes when you're finished.

#### .NET Core

1. Install the [Application Insights SDK NuGet package for ASP.NET Core](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore) package from NuGet. The version you install must match the current installed version of `Microsoft.ApplicationInsights`.

   The latest version of `Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore` is 2.14.0, and it refers to `Microsoft.ApplicationInsights` version 2.14.0. Hence the version of       `Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore` to be installed should be 2.14.0.

2. Modify the `ConfigureServices` method in your *Startup.cs* class:

    ```csharp
    services.AddSingleton<ITelemetryModule, FileDiagnosticsTelemetryModule>();
    services.ConfigureTelemetryModule<FileDiagnosticsTelemetryModule>( (module, options) => {
        module.LogFilePath = "C:\\SDKLOGS";
        module.LogFileName = "mylog.txt";
        module.Severity = "Verbose";
    } );
    ```

    Your application must have write permissions to the configured location.

3. Restart the process so that these new settings are picked up by the SDK.

4. Revert these changes when you're finished.

## Collect logs with PerfView

[PerfView](https://github.com/Microsoft/perfview) is a free tool that helps isolate CPU, memory, and other issues.

The Application Insights SDK log `EventSource` self-troubleshooting logs that can be captured by PerfView.

To collect logs, download PerfView and run this command:

> **PerfView.exe collect -MaxCollectSec:300 -NoGui /onlyProviders=**\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Core,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Data,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-WindowsServer-TelemetryChannel,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-AppMapCorrelation-Dependency,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-AppMapCorrelation-Web,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-DependencyCollector,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-HostingStartup,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-PerformanceCollector,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-EventCounterCollector,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-PerformanceCollector-QuickPulse,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-Web,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-WindowsServer,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-WindowsServer-Core,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-LoggerProvider,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-EventSourceListener,\*Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-AspNetCore,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Core,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Data,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-WindowsServer-TelemetryChannel,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-AppMapCorrelation-Dependency,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-AppMapCorrelation-Web,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-DependencyCollector,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-PerformanceCollector,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-EventCounterCollector,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-PerformanceCollector-QuickPulse,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-Web,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-WindowsServer,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-LoggerProvider,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-EventSourceListener,\*Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-AspNetCore

You can modify these parameters as needed:

| Parameter | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `MaxCollectSec` | Set this parameter to prevent PerfView from running indefinitely and affecting the performance of your server. |
| `OnlyProviders` | Set this parameter to only collect logs from the SDK. You can customize this list based on your specific investigations. |
| `NoGui` | Set this parameter to collect logs without the GUI. |

For more information, see the following links:

* [Recording performance traces with PerfView](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/main/docs/wiki/Recording-performance-traces-with-PerfView.md)

* [Application Insights EventSources](https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-dotnet/tree/develop/troubleshooting/ETW#application-insights-eventsources)

## Collect logs with dotnet-trace

Alternatively, you can use a cross-platform .NET Core tool, [dotnet-trace](/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-trace), for collecting logs that can provide further help in troubleshooting. This tool may be helpful for Linux-based environments.

After you install `dotnet-trace`, run the [dotnet-trace collect](/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-trace#dotnet-trace-collect) command below in bash:

> **dotnet-trace collect --process-id \<PID> --providers** Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Core,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Data,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-WindowsServer-TelemetryChannel,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-AppMapCorrelation-Dependency,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-AppMapCorrelation-Web,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-DependencyCollector,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-HostingStartup,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-PerformanceCollector,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-EventCounterCollector,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-PerformanceCollector-QuickPulse,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-Web,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-WindowsServer,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-WindowsServer-Core,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-LoggerProvider,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-EventSourceListener,Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-AspNetCore,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Core,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Data,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-WindowsServer-TelemetryChannel,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-AppMapCorrelation-Dependency,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-AppMapCorrelation-Web,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-DependencyCollector,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-PerformanceCollector,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-EventCounterCollector,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-PerformanceCollector-QuickPulse,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-Web,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-WindowsServer,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-LoggerProvider,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-Extensibility-EventSourceListener,Redfield-Microsoft-ApplicationInsights-AspNetCore

## How to remove Application Insights

To remove Application Insights in Visual Studio, follow the steps provided in [How to remove Application Insights in Visual Studio](/azure/azure-monitor/app/remove-application-insights).

## It still isn't working

See the [Microsoft Q&A page for Application Insights](/answers/tags/20/azure-monitor).

[!INCLUDE [Third-party disclaimer](../../../includes/third-party-disclaimer.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Azure Help Support](../../../includes/azure-help-support.md)]
